CHAPTER I.
A RURAL PHILOSOPHER.

For a territory containing no high mountain system,
Michigan has a varied geography. In contrast to the
sterile hills and grand, pictured rocks of the nothern
peninsula, the productive farms in the southern part of
the state form an area of fertility unbroken save by a few
patches of sand and some irregular strips of swamp. The
largest and most remarkable of these swamps passes from
north to south through Ingham and Jackson counties,
extending beyond the borders of Shiawassee and Lenawee.

This marshy territory is covered by a motley growth
of willows, huckleberries, spruce, tamaracks and a few
pines, in places so thin as to afford no inconvenience to a
footman, in other places so thick as to be almost inaccessible.
Horse-thieves, escaped convicts, and deserters from
the army, have successively sought its seclusion; and
never has the asylum betrayed the confidence of one who
trusted in its hospitality.

On the western side of the swampy belt lay a farm,
which, according to the census of 1870, shared, with but
four others in the State, the distinction of containing one
thousand acres.

The owner of this piece of property for many years was
Major Ratke, an officer of the Mexican war. He was
ambitious of acquiring distinction as a philosopher, both
in his neighborhood and throughout the world. He was
especially desirous of becoming famous ae a great inventor,
 and to this end he had constructed a large quantity
of strange machinery. In his inventions he aimed at
novelty, and so well did he succeed in this respect that
even his bitterest enemies never accused him of a lack of
originality.

One March morning in 187--, the major was in the sitting-room
of his gothic house working at an abstruse
problem in mathematical philosophy, of which he was excessively
fond. It was hard, however, for him to give it
his undivided attention. Troubles had been gathering
about his domain. A mortgage on his estate had been
foreclosed, and his hired help, never famed for efficient
service, now shirked duty with even more than their usual
faithlessness. His widowed sister, Mrs. Grippin, a more
acute and vigilant overseer than he, had from the chamber
window repeatedly viewed through a telescope the
delinquency of two men who were cutting wood on a back
lot. Her vehement arraignment did not induce the major
to take action upon the matter, till an event occurred
which he considered an insult to his dignity as a master.
He had sent them to the woods with an ax and an
invention of his own, which he termed a "one-man saw,"
but which his men called, from the labor of running it, the
"six-man saw."

Next to the "one-man saw" the ax was the tool most
shunned about the farm. Accordingly, as soon as they
thought themselves out of sight, the indignant laborers
took a half-day's vacation to get some tobacco at the village
of Break o'Day, which circumstance procured their
immediate discharge.

The major had thought it an easy thing to supply
their places. His surmise, however, was incorrect. Of
the first three visitors who called at his residence after he
put up the sign, "Wanted, two hired men," one was a
lightning-rod man, one was a book agent, and the other a
tramp, who hired out before breakfast, and after the meal
declared that it was cold weather to work and that he
would come around to begin when it got warmer.

Notwithstanding the foreclosure of the mortgage the
major was planning sundry improvements on his place. A
hill and a quagmire opposite to the house were eyesores
to his vanity, and he determined to transfer the superfluous
gravel of the one to the boggy surface of the other.
His first step was nicely to calculate the expense of the
undertaking, the only prudence of which he was capable,
for expense never stood in the way of his projects. When
he had finished a survey of the hill, he applied his mathematics
to ascertain its cubical contents, using a confusion
of geometrical and surveying terms to which Mrs. Grippin,
though protesting, was obliged to listen.

But, as he proceeded in his work, he determined to
originate a new method for ascertaining the dimensions of
solid bodies; and his inventive instinct prevailed to such
an extent that it became greater than his desire to improve
his farm.

He declared that he would invent a system of mathematics
which should be the basis of calculation for succeeding
ages. He formed a small earthen mound to
represent as nearly as possible the shape of the hill. He
determined to ascertain the weight of the hill by the rule,
"Similar bodies are to each other as the cubes of their
like dimensions."

As he was giving the miniature mountain a final pat to
impart additional depth to a depression on its side, his
sister interrupted his study.

"James, there's a man coming."

"Strong hand, is he?" asked the major, drawing his
finger carefully down the mound.

"Go and look for yourself," retorted Mrs. Grippin
tartly." I ain't going to wait on you and let you fool
with that pile of dirt."

"He is as faithful as the day is long," said the major,
going to the window. "I can tell by his gait. See how
steadily he walks. He would work at a good jog chopping
and keep it up all day. He would cut, let me see,
a quarter of a cord an hour. Eight hours a day. That
would be two cords."

"I'll bet he's the biggest shirk in four counties," commented
Mrs. Grippin sarcastically. "Anybody can tell
all about a man by taking him for just the opposite of
what you say he is."

Two nieces of Mrs. Grippin and the major now entered
from the parlor. The one in advance, Nora Warfle, was
fair and vivacious, with eyes over which solemnity rarely
drew a curtain thick enough to hide the merriment
slumbering within.

She was ever on the alert for the ridiculous and the
mirthful, and in her efforts at diversion she was not always
scrupulous about wounding the feelings of others.

Her companion, Marion Ratke, who resided permanently
at the farm, was a true representative of her father's
family. Her height was medium, her form symmetrical,
and her hair dark brown. She was somewhat handsome,
though she was too intelligent to be really a beauty.

"Here comes a peddler, Manie," whispered Miss
Warfle excitedly. "Let's buy something of him and beat
him down on everything he sells."

The man had drawn an attention altogether out of proportion
to the impressiveness of his personal appearance.
A common observer would at once have decided that he
had long followed the occupation of peddling. He was
of ordinary size and wore ordinary clothes. Strapped
together and hanging, one before his breast and one over
his back, were two large satchels. They seemed to have
crowded down his neck and pushed out his chin until his
shoulders were rounded almost to deformity.

The first characteristic act which he performed after
passing through the door was to anticipate the offer of a
chair by placing himself in one by the fire, as if he had
done the same thing in the same place a thousand times
before.

"I suppose you've heard the news?" he said, with the
air of one who holds a secret and who feels his power.

"I have heard a great many items of news this winter,"
answered the major.

"Yes, but the news -- the late news. You ain't heard
about the horse-thieves?"

"Horse-thieves?" echoed Miss Warfle. "Are they
around again? Uncle James, you want to lock your barn
or they'll be stealing Taylor."

"Yes," continued the man, "they've been at it again.
This time they called on, what's his name? -- this man that
raises horses over here. Queer I can't think."

"Sparks," suggested the major. "Lyman Sparks has
the best horses of any man in Jefferson township."

"No, that ain't his name," answered the man, "it's
Holmes. That's it, Holmes."

"Oh," said the major. "The best horse Holmes has
will not bring more than $300. Sparks has one for which
he has been offered $600 -- Madge T., a very good blooded
animal. He thinks she can outstep my Taylor. He did
pass me once, but he would not if Taylor had hung to the
trot."

"No wonder he breaks up," put in his sister, "the way
you train him. Do you know how he does, Nora? He
trains his team to run. He'll make them stand stock still
still he yells 'Charge,' and if they don't jump the first
thing, he thrashes them. Then the next day he'll take Taylor
out to trot."

"Mrs. Grippin!" said the major, his voice sounding an
octave below his usual speaking key.

"Maybe you can get this gentleman to work, Uncle
James," said Miss Ratke, wishing to put an end to the
unpleasant controversy.

"Well now, like enough," answered the major. "Do
you want a job?"

"I've got one now," said the man, drawing a bottle
from one of his satchels.

"I'm going to do humanity all the good I can, sir, all
the good I can. I am agent for the Great American
Panacea. This medicine is compounded of pine, hemlock,
tamarack, cedar and spruce, besides sovereign roots and
herbs known to the medical fraternity. It cures cuts,
bruises, sprains, wounds, incisions, hurts, proud flesh --"

"What did you say your panicky is made of?" interrupted
the fair-haired Miss Warfle.

"Panacea, Miss, panacea," corrected the peddler. "It
cures cuts, bruises, sprains, wounds, incisions and all
injuries to the flesh. It is also a sovereign remedy for
asthma, bronchitis, tonsilitis, laryngitis and all throat
diseases, besides being an excellent tonic for consumption,
dyspepsia ------"

"What is your panicky worth a bottle ?" innocently
asked Miss Warfle.

"Panacea, Miss, panacea," again corrected the medicine
man. "Panicky is in a battle where the men get in a
tight place with the rebels coming right onto 'em so they
have to run, you know. Then when they get whipped and
can't fight any more, they have what they call a panic, you
know, or, as you might say, they get panicky. But this is
a different thing altogether. Better take a bottle. Mister.
It is a sovereign remedy for asthma, bronchitis, tonsilitis,
laryngitis "

"I would like a good liniment for bruises," said the
major, "but it is impossible for one remedy to cure so
many diseases. If it is prepared for everything, it is
pretty sure to cure nothing."

"I ain't so sure about the consumption and the throat
diseases," said the agent reflectively. "I thought it
would be good for them on account of its healing proper-
ties, but it's sure business for bruises."

"Have you a good salve?" asked the major.

"That's just what I've got," responded the man with
alacrity, "Derrick's Dough of Life." There's Bill Higgins
had a colt that got his leg cut on a scythe. Laid it right
open so the hide was left in flaps. Bill says to me, 'Say,
Dabney, what'll cure that cut?' and says I, 'I've got the
very thing for that.' Well, he put on the Dough of Life.
In two weeks the colt was capering round to beat all. He
got into the corn, knocked over a fence, chased the cattle
and sheep, and killed two lambs and kicked the hired man
on the leg. And I don't know what the hired man would
have done if it hadn't been for the panacea."

When the agent had sold a box of the salve he moved
toward the back-door and said, "I guess I'll go down
and try your men. Maybe some of them'll want to buy."

"You better wait till noon," said Mrs. Grippin.  "Then
the men won't have to stop work."

"They never mind that," said the agent." They was
always real good about stopping whenever I come around."

"Of course they'd be willing to stop and gab with him,"
commented Mrs. Grippin, looking after the retreating
agent." James Ratke, if you had the gumption of a man,
you'd kick such loafers off the farm when they come
palavering round with an excuse for your lazy hired
men to stop work."

"How did he know I had so many hired men?" asked
the major.

"How did he know?" repeated his sister. "Ain't he
been here half a dozen times before? He comes about
every six months, and a nuisance he is, too. Ain't you
heard them tell about old Panicky? You're the only man
in the country that don't know him."

"Oh, yes," said the major, "I do have some recollection
of him; but I was away from home when he made his
last two or three visits."

"In the name of mercy," exclaimed Mrs. Grippin, "if
there ain't another lightning-rod man."

The young man coming up the walk might have been
twenty-eight. The preceding speculation concerning his
profession seemed correct, for nothing about him indicated
acquaintance with farm labor. His elegant form, his
dark hair and eyes and a heavy brown mustache combined
with an air of easy grace to make him one of those
so rarely met with whom any apparel becomes. Yet, as
is usually the case with such individuals, he bestowed
more care on his personal appearance than he would
have bestowed had nature made such attention more
necessary.

The stranger with few preliminaries made an application
for work. To this proposal Ratke did not immediately
reply. He gave his own name and requested the young
man to do likewise.

"My name is Montcalm," said the stranger, with a
smile which at once won the major's heart.

"Montcalm," exclaimed the major; "that is the name
of one of my comrades in the army."

"My father held the rank of captain in the Mexican
war," said Montcalm. "I am the heir to his given name,
which was Traceworth."

Instantly the major was shaking him by the hand." Is
he alive? Is he well? Where does he live?" were his
ejaculations.

"He died fifteen years ago," answered Montcalm, "at
his home in Cortland, New York."

"He was a noble fellow," said the major, "and his
sword was one of the best in the brigade. General Taylor,
in his official report, made special mention of him for
bravery in the battle of Resaca de la Palma. I was by
his side during the engagement, and I, like the rest of the
men, noticed his impetuosity, though I had little time to
watch my comrades. It always seemed as if he ought to
have been promoted, but justice is not in every case meted
out in this world. Did you ever hear him speak of me?"

"I have heard him mention his comrades in the army,
but I have forgotten their names," answered Montcalm.
"I was young when he died."

"We first got acquainted in the Black-Hawk war," said
the old man." He was generally good-natured, but he
had a terrible temper and was very set in his way. I
have suspected that that was one thing which kept him
from rising in the service. One night on Wisconsin River,
after we had been chasing Black-Hawk all day, the
mosquitos were very thick. Some of the boys rolled and
tumbled and some swore. As I was exposing first one
part of my face and then another, to see if there was not
some place the pests had less relish for, I heard a
threshing so regular that I knew whoever was making it meant
to push hostilities to the last, and when I looked, I saw
Trace sitting up and striking as deliberately as he would
plan a compaign. But it was a wicked vindictiveness,
and when the lieutenant laughed at him, he wanted to
fight.

"His set ways came near getting him into trouble once.
It was at the last battle in the Wisconsin territory. The
Indians had been beaten and were swimming across a
slough, bucks, pappooses and squaws all splashing around
together. We had orders to fire on them from the bank.

"Trace told me he thought it was a hard sight, and he
would fire, but he would take care the bullets did not hit
anybody. Most of the Indians were shot down before
they got across. One old buck turned back to help a
squaw, probably his own, to get her pappoose to shore.
Trace and I wanted to have that old fellow get clear; but I
while we were congratulating ourselves that he stood a
little chance, Ben Rogers, right close by, drew a careful
bead on him. Now, Ben was the best shot in the regiment,
and my heart went down in my boot-heels, but
Trace jostled him just as he fired. Well, Ben was mad.
He threatened to report, and if he had. Trace might have
got court-martialed, but he never did. Trace's jostling
did no good, however. The old buck fell, going over
the bluff on the other side. How long before dinner,
Maria?"

"About three-quarters of an hour," answered Mrs.
Grippin with unaccustomed good-nature. "I'll ring the
bell when it's time, and I ought to have a load of wood,
James."

"All right," responded the major. "Show Trace his
room. I must call you Trace on your father's account,
for it is a luxury to address his son as I did him. We
will make no bargain till after dinner."

After bringing in the wood, Ratke waited a few minutes
for Montcalm's appearance. At the end of that period
Montcalm came from the bedroom, wearing a suit of plain
clothes and a pair of stoga boots. Even this dress did
not give him the air of a farmer, which he had evidently
sought to assume. His hands, soft and white, indicated
that he was unacquainted with muscular toil; and his
whole aspect and demeanor, in ways not easily described,
pointed to the same conclusion. There was in his address
something which was peculiarly winning, and which would
have fascinated Ratke without the assistance of the
veteran's friendship for his old comrade.

"Why, you have made a farmer of yourself," said the
major. "No, you have only tried to. Well, suppose we
look around a little before dinner. Go to work now? No,
sir, not a stroke do you do till one o'clock;" and, leading
the way, the master of the domain passed out to a survey
of the farm; but Mrs. Grippin called him back to take
from her table the pile of dirt intended as the basis of his
mathematical calculations.
