CHAPTER IV.
A CIRRUS BECOMES A NIMBUS.

"Did you get me any letters, Manie?" asked Ratke
as he met his nieces, who were coming from the barns.

"Two of them," answered Manie.

"Maria," said Ratke, when they were in the dining-room,
"get Mark something for his cough. I am going into the
sitting-room to read my letters."

The first missive which the major opened bore a Washington
postmark and read as follows:


    Washington, D. C, March 4, 187-
    Mr. J. Ratke,
   
    Break o'Day, Mich.
    Dear Sir:-- As the commissioner expresses doubt concerning
    the practical value of your invention, I find it is difficult
    to obtain a patent. I must receive fifty dollars before I
    proceed further.
   
    Respectfully yours,
   
    F. B. Sackeit.


"The leech!" muttered the major; "he would gorge
himself with my substance. But let me once get my
Jerusalem wagon started, and I will bid defiance to patent
lawyers and creditors. What do I care for the few drops
the insect gets if their place will soon be supplied by
a liberal infusion which will send vigor through my
veins?"

The contents of the second letter are given below.


    Jackson, Mich., March 4, 187-.
    Mr. J. Ratke,
   
    Break o'Day, Mich.
    Dear Sir: We spoke to Mr. Green about the matter which you
    mentioned. He says he cannot postpone the foreclosure of the
    mortgage a day.
   
    Yours respectfully,
   
    Collins & Joy.


The effect of the two communications was to produce
an unwonted depression in the major's spirits. It
was as if a cloud of whose existence he had been not
ignorant, but to which he had been inattentive, had
suddenly by a warning bolt made him give heed to its
proximity.

No matter in which direction he turned, he could not
find a way out of the perplexing difficulty. Schemes
which were his hope, his very life, demanded money for
their furtherance. His produce was sold, his pocket-book
empty, his credit gone. He realized his situation; and, in
the distance, he felt he saw, approaching, calamities which
would destroy his dearest projects and involve in ruin
himself and his household.

Mrs. Grippin interrupted these miserable reflections by
saying,

"He's in here, William Henry Harrison, if you want to
see him!"

The visitor was William Henry Harrison Hibbard,
whose first three names had been given him at his birth,
applied in sport during his boyhood, and used through
habit when he had reached man's estate. William Henry
Harrison had fits; and these fits had reduced his mind,
if not to imbecility, to a state of intelligence considerably
below mediocrity. The spring before, the Republicans
of Jefferson township had, for want of better amusement,
nominated him for constable; and the Democrats had so
far fallen in with the joke that, though they had a large
majority, the half-wit was elected.

William Henry Harrison was tall and slender, his mouth
was large, and his hair was light The most conspicuous
part of his raiment was a long, loose ducking jacket which
was belted tightly about the waist, and whose lower edges
flared out from his body like an umbrella top. As this
was his most expensive article of clothing, and as he never
wore it except on important occasions, it was by the local
wits called his official coat.

"Well, William Henry Harrison," inquired the major,
"do you have a great deal to do as constable?"

"No, not 'nawful sight," answered William Henry
Harrison.

"That was a fine run you made last spring," observed
Ratke. "I believe you beat Johnny Hemp?"

"Yes, I lick 'im. I run 'way 'head."

"Did you ever arrest anybody or serve a summons? "
inquired Ratke.

"Dono, guess not," replied the half-wit.

"Probably not," said the major, half to himself. "In
the machine of law you are a pinion, whirled by the belts
and pulleys of courts, which are, in turn, propelled by the
engine of legislation. But you are satisfied with your
condition, and that is more than can be said of many who
think themselves your superiors. Content, as you are, with
your lot, you may as well be a pinion as an engine."

"Yes," remarked William Henry Harrison, "engine
might bust."

"By George!" exclaimed the major, "but there is wisdom
in that. The solid iron pinion can be broken only
by external forces, while the hollow engine may, itself,
generate the power by which it is rent. Likewise, the
humble mind escapes those internal conflicts which bring
ruin to some of the mightier intellects. William Henry
Harrison, that, is the wisest remark I have heard in a
month."

Upon this unusual compliment, the author of the saying
so highly praised grinned, covered his mouth with his
hand and looked steadily at Ratke for some minutes.

The major, tiring of the half-wit's scrutiny, had recourse
to a stratagem which seldom fails to remind a forgetful
guest of the object of his visit.

"Let me take your hat," he said.

"No," replied William Henry Harrison, taking his hand
from his mouth. "I no stay, Misser Green, he git mad."

"So you stay with Green yet," observed Ratke.

"Yes," answered the half-wit; "Misser Green, he git
me new straw hat I give you this paper."

"Oh, it is a paper you are serving on me!" exclaimed
Ratke. "Make Green give you your regular fee, and tell
him that constables are not obliged to take straw hats in
payment for the performance of legal duties."

The document proved to be a summons which had been
issued by Justice Lyman Sparks, in behalf of Josiah Green,
who had purchased a note due the Buckeye Manufacturing
Co. of Marlboro, Ohio.

"Go back to Josiah Green," said the major, "and tell
him that you performed your errand. Tell him that I
bound up his financial wounds when the priest and the
Levite passed him by. Tell him I lent him money when
his place was mortgaged for its full value, and no one else
would trust him. Tell him he owes me yet for a cow and
wheat which I let him have when his family was sick."

"I can't 'member so much," said William Henry Harrison,
alarmed at Ratke's vehemence. "Misser Green he whip.
Oh! whip big."

"Halt," ordered the major, as the unique constable
moved toward the door. "You have been a faithful
officer and you have earned your supper. You must eat
with me. Instead of making Green mad, it will please
him to think he is relieved from the expense of feeding
you. Maria rang the saw before you served the summons."

"But," said the half-wit, "I can't 'member that you say
when mad."

"You need not try to remember it," was the major's
answer." You could do so if you could once comprehend
it, for you have no doubt a preponderance of memory
over the reflectives. Your mind is not brilliant, and,
when by accident you stumble upon a sensible expression,
it shines as forcibly as a bolt of lightning from the
darkened sky at midnight. Do you understand what I say ?"

"No," answered William Henry Harrison.

"It is as well that you do not," commented Ratke. "I
would rather you would not understand all I say, because
I want to talk, and I do not wish to hurt your feelings.
Now, I will tell you something which you can understand,
William Henry Harrison. To-day you have been a
smarter man than I have."

William Henry Harrison was so pleased with Ratke's
approbation that, at supper, he endeavored to obtain more
of it by delivering some witty speeches. Disappointed in
receiving encouragement to continue his remarks, he allowed
his own appreciation of his sagacity to be visible
in several prolonged grins, the last of which was frozen
by one of Mrs. Grippin's frowns.

After the meal, as he stood irresolutely in the sittingroom,
he remarked, "I have fit purty soon. I tell."

"I will tell Trace to hitch up a horse and take you
home," said Ratke, hastily passing to the dining-room.

The major, returning, found William Henry Harrison
on the floor, with his limbs alternately contracting and
expanding to their utmost capacity. The half-wit's eyes
were rolled back, his face contorted, his figure writhing
and twisting and his lips covered with froth. On the
floor about him were the fragments of a large mirror,
which had cut his hands in several places.

When William Henry Harrison had finished his first
and last official visit, Ratke observed, "The Buckeye
Company agreed to wait a year for that note. I wonder
that so careful a man as Green should send such an officer
as William Henry Harrison."

"You needn't wonder," returned Mrs. Grippin. "He
did it to be mean, just to tantalize you. If it ain't legal,
he'll send another man with it. Oh, I would like to talk
to Si Green a minute. I'd like to tell him some things.
If it hadn't been for you, he'd have starved and his whole
family. You can get mad if you want to, Nora. I know
he's your aunt's husband. But that don't make any difference.
I should think you'd be proud of him, a man
that's got rich making cider. He's done more harm in
this neighborhood than he could do good if he should live to
be as old as Methuselah. Him, a member of the church,
making cider and selling it to get men drunk."

"I wonder how he found out about the note," said the
major.

"It's that Phleet Takum," replied Mrs. Grippin. "He
keeps posted on your business better than you do. He
has done a great deal to destroy your credit."

"It is strange," remarked the major, "how a man of
Philetus' ability can do so much harm. I can explain it in
no way except by the law of virtual velocities: 'Power,
multiplied by the distance through which it moves, equals
weight, multiplied by the distance through which it moves. '
To accomplish a given result, then, a man of half average
ability must move through twice the space, or, in other
words, bestir himself twice as much as an ordinary man.
Here comes Trace. I must see how he left William Henry
Harrison."

Montcalm informed Ratke that he had left William
Henry Harrison at Green's gate, apparently none the worse
for his fit.

"Do you know he is an officer of the law?" queried
the major, as he was unhitching a tug.

"No, is he?" ejaculated Montcalm.

"The Republicans and part of the Democrats of Jefferson
township," said Ratke, "disgraced themselves by
electing that poor idiot boy to the office of constable.
Today he made his first official visit."

"I am surprised," commented Montcalm.

"That is all I can tell you," said Ratke quickly, feeling
that he had already said too much. "To succeed in
business a man must bridle his tongue. If he gives a
knowledge of his affairs to the gossips, he places them
before a double convex lens, which may converge the
heat of public scrutiny to melt his gold, as that metal is
sometimes melted at a powerful focus."

"I have no wish to pry into your affairs," replied
Montcalm. "On the contrary, I am opposed to receiving
from you any confidence which you may afterward regret."

"This much I can tell you. Trace," said Ratke. "The
constable's errand was not to perform a duty connected
with criminal law."

"I felt assured of that," replied Montcalm. "You
will never be suspected of crime. I will care for this
horse if you will tell me how much grain to feed him."

It often happens that a skillful investigator will by
professed indifference lull suspicions of his art and
extract much information which by any other means he
would be unable to obtain. This is what was done by
Montcalm. Ratke thought that he had been boorish with
the son of his old comrade. He would atone for his
surliness by a partial explanation.

"This is a civil matter," he remarked, "a little debt
which I owe and which I thought would not be presented
for collection in a year."

"You have been hardly fair with me," said Montcalm.

"You have not allowed me to do the chores enough to
learn them. How much grain do you feed this horse?"

"Never mind the horse," exclaimed Ratke impatiently.
"You do not seem to like to listen to me, Trace. I have
been sued by Green. He has bought a note of twenty
dollars against me. Not that it is anything serious, but
some other things unite with it to make up a combination
which promises me trouble. The farm is sold on the
mortgage in July."

"Your Jerusalem wagon ought to help you out," said
Montcalm.

"Oh," replied Ratke. "If I could get my wagon into
the market, I could pay for my farm. If I could pay for
my farm, I could get my wagon into the market. Both
are wedged in the narrow passage of fatality, each waiting
to be extricated by help from the other. To-day I re-
ceived a letter from my patent lawyer, stating that he
must have fifty dollars or he could not proceed further
with the business. I bought a cow of Osborne for thirty
dollars and I agreed to get her in two weeks. I can muster
not more than twenty-five dollars with which to meet these
sums, I own a farm, the Barton hundred and sixty,
which is east of the county line and which is unencumbered.
I might mortgage that, but I hate to do it."

"Is that the extent of your trouble?" asked Montcalm.
"I can lend you one hundred dollars. Last week I got
my quarterly dividend on a one-thousand-dollar share of
stock."

"One thousand dollars!" cried the major. "One
thousand dollars surely cannot bring a quarterly dividend
of one hundred dollars."

"The quarterly dividend is one hundred and fifty," said
Montcalm.

"In what kind of stock have you invested ?" queried
Ratke.

"That I am not at liberty to tell," responded Montcalm.
"Every member of the company is bound to keep its
operations secret."

"Get out of it as soon as you can," advised Ratke.
"It is fraudulent, or there would be no need of
secrecy."

"I will do so at once," acquiesced Montcalm. "At the
next quarter I will withdraw my capital."

"I am suspicious of such organizations," said Ratke.
"Did you ever hear of Nijni Novgorod oats?"

"I never did," replied Montcalm.

"That," pursued Ratke, "was the most successful
swindle which was ever worked on the farmers of
Michigan. For every bushel of grain which the company
sold to a farmer, it received ten dollars and agreed to sell
for him the next year twice that quantity at the same
price, minus the agent's fee of twenty-five per cent.
Thus, for each bushel of grain the farmer bought, he gave
ten dollars and got fifteen. He was bound by agreement
not to sell the oats for less than they cost him. Jackson
County went wild over the speculation. As the Nijni
Novgorod fellows gave credit and took notes for pay,
every one had means to invest.

"After harvest the agents were not to be found.
Then the crisis came. The notes had passed into the
hands of those whom the law calls innocent purchasers
and, of course, had to be paid. Men put their property
out of their hands to avoid payment. Jasper Smith, a
prosperous farmer who had been defrauded to the amount
of twelve hundred dollars, hung himself in his own barn.
Yet this lesson, severe as it was, did not educate the
people. They would seize with avidity the next chance
to be swindled."

"I will get out of the company at the next quarter,"
assured Montcalm. "By that time I shall have doubled
my investment."

"Oh, I would not be too fast," said the major. "But
they will never draw me into the scheme. I would like
to have one of their agents come here. I would give him
a snub which he would not soon forget."

"The company will not attempt to inveigle you," replied
Montcalm. "It does not send out agents. It wishes
to be composed of those only who are now its members."

"How clannish!" Ratke exclaimed, "to want to keep
a good thing all to itself. I have no patience with such
companies. You can tell me something of its nature
Trace?"

Not without a permit from the president and directors,"
answered Montcalm. "I must keep my promise
of secrecy, even though I offend my father's friend and
mine."

"Break your promise to no one," said Ratke. "But
you can write to them for permission to impart the
knowledge I wish?"

"They may not like to let you know," suggested Montcalm.
"Nevertheless, I will write."

"I will risk it," replied the major. "They would give
me permission to join if I desired to do so. Now, I have
no wish to join you. But you write and ask them if I
may. I will wager a box of cigars that they will accept
me as a member."

"Done," said Montcalm," and I will show you their
answer. I am certain of my cigars, however. They will
admit no new members."

"They are very exclusive," commented the major.
"Are they afraid of contamination from the common
people? None of them have better blood than I. My
ancestor, Johann Ratke, was a grandson of Martin
Gerard, the uncle of Erasmus. What king of the fourteenth
century wielded a more powerful and more enduring
scepter than the philosopher of Rotterdam?"
