CHAPTER X.
TWO KINDS OF BUD BLOSSOM.

The author whose ambition is that of the rural historian
will not attempt scientifically to analyze the causes
which led to the circumstances herein to be described.

To the reader it may seem improbable, but certain it is
that John Wrengell was received with more favor by the
Ratkes. The traditions which might have thrown light
upon the subject were imperfectly kept. Brown, Thompson
and Daggett, excellent authorities on farm-life and the
hunt after the horse-thieves, forgot those trifling incidents,
of which reminiscences would have assisted us in our
speculation.

John and Manie began to be better acquainted.

Wrengell's manners and habits were undergoing a
change, whether for the better is a question on which the
student and the man of fashion would differ. He was
entering the period which at some age is reached by most
men, the epoch of the anxiety to improve the personal
attractions. Had he possessed an opportunity he would
have been tempted to barter a part of his hard-earned
learning for a more perfect understanding of proprieties.
At the church he saw Fred Loomis, and envied him his
style. Dr. Rorus' clerk was not brilliant. Indeed, he
seemed to be an automatic, imitative body, wound up for
life without the troublesome complication of a brain. His
walk was unmistakably that of the young man who is assured
of his gentility, and his hat was tipped at exactly
the right angle to be fashionable.

John, before going to Oakville to purchase a suit of
clothes, took observations of Loomis' apparel. The
dress suit, his first extravagance, was praised by the
clothier as a perfect fit. John did not mistrust that the
trousers were too short, or that the loose coat hung in
wrinkles about his shoulders.

The Sunday morning after the important purchase he
took extraordinary pains with his attire. But the clothes
brush was filled with the lint of the club-house, and the
blacking-brush, which had been used on greasy boots,
would not impart to bis shoes a perfect shine.

He was before the mirror, trying to smooth down an
obstinate lock of hair, when Daggett thus addressed him:

"Fix it up nice, John. I would if I was in your place.
If you go in the parlor now, you'll find her alone. She's
singing, and all the rest of them are in the sitting-room."

John determined to make a terrible rejoinder, but before
he prepared it, he was assaulted by Brown and
Thompson, and he was unable to reply to them all. For
the purpose of escaping the notice of his fellows he went
to the orchard, and walked around it in pretended abstraction
till he came to its western side. There, seated
on the fence, he chewed splinters from the rails and waited
for the keen-eyed Daggett to turn his attention elsewhere,
so that his arrival in front of the house might not be seen
by the fun-loving hired man. When this occupation became
monotonous, he slid from his position and started
across the orchard.

The warm May days had strewn verdure over the limbs
of the apple-trees. Leaves had pushed out, and buds had
developed to blossoms. Dressed in pink and white, the
blossoms, stirred by a strong wind, posed in different
attitudes, and at each ample swing cast off a portion of their
loveliness. A few rods ahead of John was Manie, standing
with her back toward him beneath a tree. About her,
as if in homage, were falling the dismembered blossoms.
As the wind lifted her hair and threw a shower of the
white leaves on her shoulders, he thought it would be no
misfortune, if he and she, like Una and the red-cross
knight, could be lost in a wood,

    "Whose lofty trees, yclad with summer's pride,
     Did spread so broad that Heaven's light did hide."

She Stretched her hand upward, trying to get possession
of a bough which was beyond her reach.

"Let me help you," said John, stepping quickly to her
side. "I will pull it down, and you can make the
selection you wish."

John purposely held the bough so high that, to reach it,
she was obliged to raise herself on tiptoe and remain very
close to him until the desired flowers were obtained.

"I wanted these," said Manie, "because they are fresher
than the others. These are just opened, while most of
them are ready to fall. What do you think of our apple
grove, Mr. Wrengell?"

"I think it is a kingly court," replied John, "in which
reigns an absolute monarch. The advent of summer
holds perfect sway over our fancy. Of all periods the
beginning of a progressive era is most interesting. When
a state or system has been established a considerable
length of time, it is no longer able to draw the strongest
admiration; but awakening life is never without its charms.
That line of woods is now in its richest beauty. There
can be nothing more picturesque than the spot where
that dark green tree is set diagonally in front of the less
deeply tinted background. As its fellows advance to the
same stage of development, the view will grow less 
attractive. The reign of this scene around us over human
sympathies is transitory, for those white petals are now
falling. In a few days the trees will be clad in simple
green, and in the autumn they must surrender their
authority and yield tribute to those whom they have ruled."

"The summer brings to the orchard little loss of
authority," said Manie. "You may prefer blossoms to
fruit, but Phleet Takum's little boys will not neglect yonder
tree when it is loaded with yellow pippins. There are
Seven of our hired men. Only one of them goes a rod
out of his way to look at leaves and flowers, but they will
all come trooping over here as soon as they are assured
that harvest-apples are ripe. How many of the farmers
stay in their orchards all day now? How many of them
will keep away from them when it is time to gather fruit?
You judge of an entire force by its application in one
place. It has not the universality which you claim or
imply that it possesses."

John was in a dilemma. He believed that he ought to
continue the argument in order to appear to advantage
before Manie. But he had learned that in a nervous
condition, such as he labored under at that moment, he was
certain to make statements which were fatal to his logic.
Furthermore, he might, under the influence of excitement,
utter some discourteous remark, which would nullify any
good impression which he might have made.

"Are you going to meeting to-day?" he asked as Manie
moved toward the house.

"I think so," answered Manie; "we usually go."

"Can I go too?" inquired John, while his shaking
fingers were picking at a blossom-covered apple-limb.

"Of course you can," answered Manie. "Who is to
prevent you? "

"But," persisted John, "can I go with you?"

"If there is room in the buggy you can," said Manie.
"Nora, Aunt Maria and I can sit behind, and perhaps
Uncle James will let you ride with him and Mr. Montcalm."

"No," exclaimed John in desperation, while a flush
overspread his face, "I mean will you go alone with me?"

"Oh!" said Manie, "that is a different matter. Yes, I
will go!'

John would have expressed his appreciation of the favor
which he was receiving, but he had not mastered gallantry,
and he was overwhelmed with a sense of his inefficiency
as an escort. That which he could not speak he could
act. Regard drew him near her, and the fear of repulse
drew him back, so that he walked in a zigzag line across
the orchard. He pushed aside branches of trees for her
to pass; and, coming to some bars, he threw down all of
them but the bottom one, which was caught at the end.
He was tugging away at the unyielding board when Manie
put an end to his strenuous efforts by stepping quickly
over it.

John left Manie at the house and hurriedly went to the
road. He did not dream of the ridicule he was preparing
for himself by his excited manner and walk.

The drive to church furnished him the keenest enjoyment
he had ever known. He was the escort of the most
cultured, the most esteemed lady of that community.
Samson-like, he was rending the bonds of his evil fortune
and bearing away the Gazan gate which shut him within the
city of disrepute. From the pit of degradation he raised 
his head above its mouth and viewed the hills of
respectability, the borders of which he hoped soon to cross.
He could think of nothing to say, and, indeed, he was too
happy to talk. The wind placed invigorating touches on his
face, and the wood to the south, with its thin light-colored
drapery and its flank of dark tamaracks, sent to him an
inspriation which found fellowship with his already awakened
feelings.

At the church he was unpleasantly reminded of his abstraction
by the discovery that he had driven too far from the platform
for Manie conveniently to alight. Wishing to atone for his
lack of skill by a show of agility, he endeavored to clear
the distance by a leap, but as his feet caught in the lines,
he was thrown on his hands and knees; and it was only by
very energetic and undignified scrambling that he escaped
falling to the ground. The boys and young men on the steps
contented themselves by exchanging a few knowing looks. When,
however, John had hitched his horse and awkwardly passed into
the church, they commented freely on his behavior.

After this Sunday Ratke's favor toward Wrengell began to wane
and Mrs. Grippin's began to increase. She admitted that John
was a very good musician. He sraped his feet before he came
into the house. He did not always wipe his hands in the
center of the towel. He was, moreover, careful about
disfiguring the butter-roll, and did not take more of the
butter than he wanted on his plate.

It was the time of May-baskets, and parties hanging these
souvenirs had been about the neighborhood at night.

John gathered some flowers from the swale which joined the
swamp. He tied them with a ribbon which he had bought for that
purpose, attached to them some poetry, hung them on the knob
of the front door, rapped and ran to the road. These were the
stanzas which Manie read:

    "We dwelt amid a marchy haunt,
        Where youthful oaks and elms bend low,
    Where shade meets sun, where breezes pant,
        Where plants their fellows' secret know,
    And laugh with joy and sympathize with woe.
    
    "Rude were the hands which bore us hence
        From that loved spot where we were born.
    The lofty tamarack laments,
        The grieving poplar quakes, forlorn,
        The grass blade bows its head to weaep at morn
        
    "Death to the exiled flowers must steal.
        Oh, let us not be spurned, but given
    Cold water ant this boon to feel,
        That we from home have not been driven,
        And on us falls the soothing rain of Heaven."
