CHAPTER XIV.
MONTCALM FINDS DANTE INACCURATE.

On the second night after the inquest Montcalm fell
into his first slumber since the nocturnal expedition which
had robbed him of Nature's restorative and had deprived
Green of mortal existence. In that state in which the
reasoning faculties are yielding to the need of rest, the
gradual transition from balanced consciousness to uncertain
fancy, he thought he saw a broad, smoothly flowing
river. The green meadow beside it, the adjacent woods,
where huge trees seemed ineffectually striving to form
bridges, were familiar to him. The house in which he was
born he saw for an instant before its place was occupied
by other objects. A cool breeze came from the water,
bringing to him vigor and placidity. He had a
strange sensation, yet it was one of peace. He was that
river. In his way were no greater trials than the fallen
trees which he swept around without inconvenience from
their presence or animosity for their interference.

His being was now divided, but the division was unequal.
A certain amount of perception alone, stripped
of the power of action, separated from the river. Through
this perception the dreamer continued his fancies. He
could no longer see the river, which retained his capacity
for good or evil, his moral responsibility. Gradually the
stream narrowed and became more turbulent. This was
indicated by the roar of its waters, which, continually
rising in pitch, betokened the decline of power and the
increase of violence. The cataract, for such it had grown
to be, was now as small as that which falls over a
schoolboy's dam. Still it decreased in size until it was no
larger than an ordinary hand, and soon its water could
have been drained as fast as it fell by a thirsty man.
Montcalm started as the stream underwent its last
diminution. Once before he had heard that measured
trickling. Some time elapsed ere he could turn his head
and view the remains of that river, which had parted with
strength, beauty and serenity. At last he saw the dropping
liquid, but it was not water. It was falling from the
end of a plank into a well with a barrel curb. On the
plank was the source of the stream, the form of a man
with skull cloven and with brain exposed. The frightful
wound, which was presented toward Montcalm, showed
him that the victim was still cognizant of current events,
for shadows of thought were passing along the convolutions
of the cerebrum. The shadows, or waves, had no
regularity of form or of appearance. At times they moved
slowly, at others they passed with great rapidity, like the
spokes of a swiftly revolving wheel. The eyes were fixed
and lurid, but they were frequently darkened by clouds of
meaning, the shades which were sweeping along the brain.
The face, undergoing the not unusual exaggeration of
dreams, alternately lengthened and broadened, one dimension
reaching its maximum development as the other
attained its minimum. The sleeper believed its hue was
ghastlier than that of death. He reached the climax of
his fright when the dead man, by a convulsive effort,
changed his features to the aspect of life and fastened on
him a look such as he might have given a poor neighbor
on whose meager possessions he had a mortgage which
he meant relentlessly to foreclose. He knew that Green
never gave that wink and leer except when some cherished
project of vengeance or finance was materializing to
a certainty.

The repulsive object on the plank was once more
hideously distorted. As the chin dropped in an abnormal
distension, the mouth opened and seemed about to close
on Montcalm, who inert and helpless, dreaded the first
touch of the jagged lips. From the cavernous throat deformed
beings beckoned to him to join them. What heightened 
his fear was a mad impulse to precipitate himself
into the yawning chasm, an act which he knew would
be followed by the most appalling consequences. Strenuously
he tried to escape. Not a muscle would contract
to help him in his emergency. Finally his will-power
prevailed and he was able to flee. Leaving the cellar, he
entered the apartment on the ground floor. Instantly
from the vicinity of the well came the clamor of pursuit,
and after him sprang a dozen men. He was in a very
large house which he was determined to quit, but every
door which he opened disclosed to him a division of the
infinitely vast building. He raced from room to room,
from each of which, sustaining a sharp conflict, he emerged,
invariably frightened and invariably unhurt. His desperate
defense was not prompted by courage, for he had but one desire,
that of finding safety at whatever cost.
His adversaries, on the contrary, though often driven back
had stricken down, returned each time to the attack, not in
the least dismayed by the blows which they had received.
Presently they forced him to a corner from which he
could not retreat. His guard was beaten down, and he
was at the mercy of his pitiless enemies. They surrounded him,
raising high their bludgeons, which poised
an instant before descending.

With a gigantic leap he crashed through the wall and trod
the solid earth. Given on this footing an unnatural speed,
he swept over fields, fences and woods, barely treading
the ground and propelling himself far at every light touch
of his foot. No longer were his pursuers in sight or hearing,
but fearful of the approach, he would not abate his
exertions.

Before him was the great swamp, and his route was the
causeway east of Ratke's. He was almost flying along the
road, by the side of which the tamaracks grew large and
tall, when to his inexpressible horror Archer arose from
the bushes, pointed a revolver at him and fired. The
shot at once robbed him of his great speed, and in his
face blew a strong wind against which he could make
little headway. His pursuers again drew new. With
savage gesticulations and yells of triumph the pressed
about him. In the intensity of despair he felt that he
could neither flee nor fight. Helplessly he looked aloft
and prayed for relief. As with limbs paralyzed, but with
senses painfully acute, he lay momentarily expecting
destruction, an angelic form flitted to his rescue, and
interposing its bright wings, parried the threatening clubs.

The mien of the angel was benign and serene. Merciful
in his strength, he did not injure those who were endeavoring
to kill the wretch who had secured his intervention.
Montcalm, confident in the will and ability of this being
to protect him, imploringly clutched the hem of his garment.
The angel stooped and lifted him; and together,
propelled by those bright wings, hand in hand, they sped
away at a rate which defied pursuit. Their course was
midway between the horizontal and the vertical. Terrestrial
objects, trees, rivers, hills and plains, blended
indistinguishably together on the surface of the
disappearing planet, which, a non-luminous ball, was
drawing its dusky outlines into smaller compass.

Measureless was the space through which they flew.
Montcalm became aware that his feet now and then met a
substance which, though not solid, was more tangible than
air. His footing grew firmer. He was entering a land
where the common objects of inhabited earth were wanting,
where irregularly formed bodies cast shadows along
the uneven surface. A dull red glare, hovering over a
strip of the horizon, gave a quantity of light insufficient
to make vision plain. He drew closer to his protector,
for he was intimidated by the unfamiliar sight. Journeying
on, they came to a locality which was entirely occupied
by somber rocks piled in mountain-like masses by
convulsions of the sub-strata. In the distance a lurid
flame shot up high in the heavens, as if the forces which
had wrought that devastation, instead of dying out, had
shifted in position and increased in intensity.
Awe-stricken, Montcalm paused. Gladly would he have
returned to the world from which he had fled; but, as he
attempted to escape from his companion, his hand was
tightly held, and he was unable to withdraw it. At the
same moment the strange being underwent a transformation.
His golden wings lost their brilliancy, from the
top of his head sprang great horns, his face changed from
benignity to diabolical ugliness and was dark and stern
as the fire-blackened rocks around him. Agonized beyond
measure, Montcalm gazed on him who destroys men's
souls, and he remembered that he had voluntarily placed
himself in his power. While he was shrinking from his
repulsive master and fearfully awaiting the awful flame
which had now neared him, he heard, repeated, a long
shrill blast, the annunciation that "there should be time
no longer."

He opened his eyes as the notes of one of the major's
chanticleers was dying away. It was some minutes before
he comprehended the unreality of his dream, and even
after it was apparent to him, he frequently wondered if it
were really a delusion. Day had not yet arrived. The
light which came through the evergreens in front of his
window was furnished chiefly by the moon, which had
more than an hour ere its supersedure by the sun.

The plaster on the walls had cracked, leaving many
seams which an unemployed imagination might construe
to represent definite shapes. Montcalm's gaze followed
one of these lines as, making a number of curves, it formed
a grotesque resemblance to a man's head. Uneasily he
turned toward the opposite wall, fancying that the picture
was shaped like the exaggerated countenance of Green as
it had appeared in his dream.

No sooner had he sought relief by changing his posture
than his eyes fell on another set of seams which united in
the shape of a broad-ax. He sprang from bed resolved
that he would not longer stay where the most commonplace
things united to make his sojourn hideous.

Weakened by the horrors of the night, he walked slowly
from the house. The cattle were lying down in the
barnyard. With the exception of himself and Mrs. Grippin's
ducks neither animals nor men were astir about the place.
Wearily he opened a barn door and climbing a stationary
ladder, flung himself on the haymow. Sleep was for him
impossible, but he might be able to rest. He did, indeed,
find a partial refuge from his harrowing thoughts. But,
as the day dawned, he was beset by a swarm of flies,
which would give him no peace. When he had covered
his face with his hat, they lighted on his hands, and when
he had plunged his bands into the hay, they crowded under
the hat and still tormented him. He believed that
henceforth for him there was no quiet; that all nature had
conspired to make him miserable.
He heard the me  chatting in the stable and about the
barnyard. Not wishing to be discovered in the loft, he
climbed down and was passing out, when he met Archer,
whose inexpressive face reminded him of the shot which
had stopped his flight in the swamp.

Breakfast was to him a severe trial. By dint of great
exertion he managed to invent a few gay remarks and to
deliver them in a sprightly manner; but the effort was so
severe that it could not be prolonged, and he relapsed
again into silence.

It was a fine Sabbath morning, and after his few chores
were done, he sauntered back of the house, where he was
joined by Ratke.

"The murder, has drawn my attention from my own
affairs," said the major. "I am again finanfcially
embarrassed. Did I tell you about it, Trace ?"

"No, you did not," answered Montcalm.

"I do not want to profane the Sabbath, but this is not
a business matter," said Ratke, feeling in spite of his
explanation that he was doing what he pretended to avoid,
"that is, it is not a transaction in business to-day.
Durgenson has written me that he must have $4,000 the 23d
of this month. I have nothing for him unless I sell the
Barton hundred and sixty. What would you do?"

"Do not pay him one cent," replied Montcalm, with an
energy which he had not exhibited for days. "He wants
to get your entire property. Let him have this farm, but
keep---

"What!" exclaimed the major, "let the place go without
an attempt to save it ? Do you know how I have become
attached to my home? To save it, I will sacrifice,
if need be, all my possessions."

"That is what you will do," rejoined Montcalm, "and
it will avail you nothing. If you do not pay your
indebtedness on the day it is due, the farm belongs to
Durgenson. Pay all you owe him, if you pay anything. He
does not want it paid. He is longing to get every dollar
you have. He would be disappointed to hear that you
were prepared to discharge the debt. The shark in whose
clutches you have fallen will show you no mercy until the
shark of the sea returns a man unharmed to the deck of
the vessel from which he has fallen."

"You have a new opinion of Durgenson," said the
major. "You were the first one to advise me to take the
step which I did."

"God forgive me, I did!" exclaimed Montcalm bitterly.
"But all is not ruined now. You have a hundred and
sixty acres of good land. That will keep you well, and
you need not do a stroke of work. Suppose you let that
go and are penniless, what will you do? You ought not
to be obliged to labor at your age. I would keep it by
all means."

Montcalm purposely strolled near a group of the hired
men, and Ratke, unable to impart confidences, returned to
the house. Had the gloomy young man been questioned
by one who had authority to demand an answer, he could
not have explained why he went down the road toward
the church and plunged into the wood at the left.

It was with dread that he approached the pond. Its
edge had retreated farther from its usual border than it
was on the night when he had last visited it. Some turtles
which were on a log fell with splashes into the water.
A snake swam a rod or two from shore and dived for
safety. Montcalm's hair arose as he saw a leech on the
muddy bottom worming its way to shore. Sick with aversion,
he turned away, believing that the pond and its
vicinity was fit only for the habitation of devils. He
put his hand inside the hollow tree and drew out the
articles which he had there hidden. They were as he had
left tliem, the plunder, the auger, the mask and the rough
clothes with their blood-stains. He was not actuated by
a love of his ill-acquired money, and he had little curiosity.
Indeed, he did not open the pocket-book, and he barely
glanced at the clothes.

Restoring to the tree what he had removed, he walked
toward the swamp. In the gradual descent he found a
spring, and stooping, he took a cool draught and from it
bathed his face and head. After being thus invigorated,
he resumed his walk in better spirits. From the side of
the declivity bubbled other springs, the water of which met
in a rivulet, which joined the creek in the tamaracks,

Montcalm sat down near a fallen tree-top which partly
obstructed the brook. The limbs reached nearly across
the channel; so that the water, sweeping by at one side,
made its escape through a narrow passage. The current
below was rapid. Above it moved slowly, halting at the
tree-top where a partial dam of leaves, sticks and scum
was collected. Long strings of green slime swayed to
and fro, attached to the bottom and the sides of the
channel. Whirled above by the eddies, small objects were
passed into a peaceful bay formed by the tree-top and
the bank or swept into the turbulent rapids beyond.
Montcalm became impressed with the idea that the placid
bay held safety and that in the rapid current beyond was
destruction. Every piece of bark which was brought by
the rivulet he watched to ascertain its fate. He was glad
when one reached the smooth haven, disappointed when
another swept around the obstruction and was hurried to
its doom. By degrees he came to regard each floating
substance as a representation of himself, his deeds, his
chance of preservation.

An ant crawled down an overhanging bush which almost
touched the surface of the brook. Ordinarily it
would have maintained its balance, but as it whirled to
ascend, struck by a puff of wind, it fell. Montcalm viewed
its struggles with interest, for it reminded him of the
manner in which he, tossed hither and thither, had been
borne down the stream of fatality. He reflected that he
could no more have resisted the temptations and
circumstances by which he was surrounded than the poor
insectcould rise above the whirlpools and fly to land. And
yet, the ant was in a measure responsible for its misfortune.
It had realized the danger and hovered over it, believing
that its vigilance was sufficient protection. He had known
where flowed the river into which he had leaped, but he
had thought that he could leave it before arriving at the
fatal rapids, from which there could be no extrication.
Not far from him was the cataract which descended to the
abyss of eternal woe, its sheet of falling water, its
projecting rocks, its appalling roar. If the ant passed into
the still haven, he would believe that he might likewise
escape. If, swept on by the angry waves, it perished, he
would have no prospect of avoiding a .similar fate.
Anxiously he awaited the result on which in a spirit of fatalism
he had based his hopes.

The ant, struggling, floated toward the rapids. The
movement, however, was not decisive, and it swam nearer
to the shelter of the right bank, where it lay hesitating
between the shore and the stream. It again circled, and
entering the current, was carried toward the point of a
limb which separated the still and the agitated waters.
Poised an instant in mock deliberation, it was hurled into
the rushing waves. Montcalm was seized with a resolve
to rescue the creature. He ran to a stick, which he
clutched. When he turned to the brook, the ant had
disappeared. He bent over the spot where he had last seen
it, he rushed down the stream, he splashed the water with
the stick. Not a trace could he find of the insect whose
fate he had identified with his own.

"Why, what are you trying to do?" said a voice, at
the sound of which he started in alarm, "dragging the
river for a dead body?"

The speaker was Durgenson, who was spending Sunday
with Sparks and who had approached, unobserved,
during Montcalm's preoccupation. He wore a wide-brimmed
straw hat and a suit of plaid clothes, with a sack
coat which fitted tightly his full muscular figure. "You
don't look well," he continued, without waiting for a reply
to his question. "Ratke isn't in the habit of working
his hands hard enough to hurt them."

"No," said Montcalm, "I am not overworked. I have
been awake a great deal nights. I think I will leave the
locality soon. I want sleep and a change of scene."

"That is what you ought to have," remarked Durgenson.
"You have worked harder than people have any
idea of. Now, I'll bet something handsome you can tell
who hit old Green."

"Are you any better than I, you swindler?" retorted
Montcalm. "You have tricked honest men of small
means, from whom I would have been ashamed to take a
dollar. I once owned aconscience, but you never had
one."

"Oh, there's no use getting in a pet, Trace," responded
Durgenson good-naturedly. "I didn't mean anything.
I've come to bring you some money. That ought to put
you in better humor. Suppose we settle to-day."

"I have long been wanting a settlement," replied
Montcalm. "How much did the last horses bring?"

"The last I sold were the ones they had such a hunt
for," said Durgenson. "They brought four hundred
dollars."

"Four hundred dollars!" ejaculated Montcalm in surprise.
"Madge T. alone ought to have sold for more than that!"

"I can't help that," returned Durgenson. "You can't
take advantage of the market where you are dealing in
such property. You have to dispose of it the best way
you can. Here is two hundred dollars. That makes us
square, don't it?"

"No," responded Montcalm, "you owe me a great deal
more. I have done the planning for your enterprises and
you have reaped the benefits. When I told you of the
oat scheme, you agreed to pay me well for the time I
spent. I worked at it until I had it perfected. You
made thousands of dollars from it. Where is my share?
I laid the plan of the Guerrero Mining Company and
studied weeks to perfect it. Excepting the one share
which I sold, what has it availed me?"

"Well, now, that hasn't panned out much yet," said
Durgenson. "I expect it will pay."

"There is one matter I would like to speak about,"
said Montcalm. "I have made but few requests to you,
and you ought to be willing to grant this one. You have
Major Ratke's farm in your possession. You are now
trying to get the proceeds from the Barton hundred and
sixty. Take the old farm if you will, but let him have
that fragment of his estate. I ask it as a personal favor,
Durgenson."

"Now, that is asking a great deal," remarked Durgenson.
"You want me to let him go after he is once in my
hand. You helped to catch him yourself."

"So I did," replied Montcalm," and I have a right to
insist that part of my wishes concerning him shall be
carried out. I have hated myself ever since I entrapped
him."

"I'll see about it," said Durgenson. "Say how much
you want a day for your work."

"Fifteen dollars," answered Montcalm, "and I put in,
call it ten days."

"All right," said Durgenson, "That is satisfactory,
I'll make it two hundred, and then you'll be satisfied.
The oat business, though, was profitable. It was well
got up, too. The name was worth a fortune. If it had
been Chinese or Russian, the farmers might not have bit,
but Nijni Novgorod, they couldn't stand that. I suppose
you've no objection to getting a thousand more?"

"What do you want done?" inquired Montcalm.

"You see," answered Durgenson, "there's a fellow I
don't like the looks of, not that he's homelier than other
folks, but he don't look good to me. Now, I want that
fellow got out of my sight, out of everybody's sight."

"What do you take me for, you scoundrel?" exclaimed
Montcalm, "a cutthroat? I am bad enough, but I will
not kill a man for hire."

"Why, you are getting conscientious," sneered Durgenson.
"You never used to have any such compunctions.
There's a man in the graveyard that would have been
walking around if it hadn't been for you. When did you
get virtuous?"

"Are you the one to twit me of vice?" angrily cried
Montcalm. "You have encouraged me in it and fattened
on my misdeeds. When I first knew you, I was an innocent
boy, determined to make an honest man, I had no
more thought of becoming what I am than you have of
giving your property to a benevolent institution.

"My father died, my mother was in poor circumstances,
and I was obliged to work in order that I might finish my
college course. You hired me at first to bring cattle to the
east. You made great professions of honesty and of concern
for the welfare of others. In this way you won my
confidence. Then you convinced me it was right to run a
saloon, that if we did not some one else would and the
liquor would still be drunk. From selling whisky, you
lured me to swindling. You told me that every man
must look out for himself, that honesty is the cant of
hypocrites or the practice of fools, that the only wisdom is
in looking to self-gain regardless of right or wrong.
When you had schooled me well in swindling, you drilled
me in horse-stealing, awarding me the danger and you the
profit. I tell you, Durgenson, I am going straight to hell
and it is you who have sent me. I said I was going to
hell. I have been there. I am there now, and I can
hardly restrain myself from pulling you in after me."

Durgenson started back, appalled by the terrific aspect
of Montcalm, whose hand was raised aloft, whose face
was deadly pale, and whose eyes were blazing almost
with the fire of lunacy.

"Hold on!" expostulated the cattle-buyer. "Don't
talk so loud! Somebody will hear you."

"What do I care if they do?" returned Montcalm,
raising his voice still higher. "You have ruined me and
are laughing at me for it. Why should I not ruin you?
If killing myself would atone for half the evil I have done,
I would blow out my brains! If shooting you would
restore that old man his farm, you would not live an
instant!"

"For God's sake. Trace," Durgenson said, "don't act
so! You are crazy. What do you mean by saying you
have been to hell?"

"Do you intimate that I lie?" asked Montcalm
fiercely.

"No, no," said Durgenson, his astonishment and
alarm increasing. "Of course you know where you've
been."

"Yes," said Montcalm, with perfect composure, "I was
in hell all night. I shall soon go back to stay forever.
I am a devil and I know well the final home of devils.
You had better leave me. There is no telling what violence
you may tempt me to do."

"That is about what I was thinking," replied Durgenson,
jumping across the brook. "You don't know who
I can get to do the job I spoke of, do you?"

"The fellow who keeps so many dogs," said Montcalm.

Durgenson walked in the direction of Sparks', wondering
at the sudden change in his hitherto devoted helper.
Montcalm, exhausted in his weakened state by the violence
of his passion, sat down at the foot of a tree. When
he had been seated a few minutes, he separated a letter
from a bundle of papers in his pocket. It was written in
a quaint, round hand, which would have been taken at
once for that of an old lady.

    Cortland, N. V., June 30th, 187--.

    My Son Traceworth:

    It has been a long time since I have heard from you. The last
    letter you sent was when you gave me that fifty dollars. Now that
    I am alone, I don't know what I should do if Cod hadn't given me a
    good boy. You must have changed some since I saw you. That
    was five years ago. You used to write once a week regularly. Now
    you don't let me hear from you oftener than once a month. It seems
    so different now from what it did when we were rich. But it was all
    for the best. I have provisions enough. All I need now is to hear
    from my boy. I pray for you every day, Traceworth, two or three
    times a day. You know there was a spell when you didn't keep
    good company. Remember what I have told you and keep away
    from bad men.

    Mother.

Montcalm put the letter with the papers into his pocket.
Gloomily he left the woods to mingle in society which he
hated, to listen to words the import of which he did not
comprehend, to profess gayety while body and mind were
being eaten away by the canker of remorse.
