CHAPTER XVI.
MRS. BOYLE'S HOUSE.

From Ratke's Wrengell proceeded eastward. As he
passed Takum's, he was loudly greeted by the dogs. They
were, however, recalled by Philetus, for an infuriated
Irishman had lately hurled a club with such force and
precision that the larger pup had been permanently lamed
and subsequently sold at a sacrifice. In the increasing
darkness the great tamaracks, which were near the center
of the causeway, could not be separately distinguished,
but their masses cast a gloomy shade over the road and
were easily discerned even against the clouded sky.

John stopped at Wallace's house, the door of which
was opened by Julia.

"Come in," said the maiden. "You live to the major's,
don't you? Take off your hat and stay awhile."

"That is where I live," answered John. "Thank you,
I cannot stop."

"Oh, now you better come in," insisted Julia, "It's
just as cheap to set in the house as it is to poke around
outdoors. Pa and Ab are gone away to-night, plague
take 'em. I'm all alone and so lonesome I don't know
what to do. We could git acquainted in no time."

"Can you tell me the way to Mrs. Boyle's?" asked
John.

"Why, it's too dark to git to Mrs. Boyle's," said Julia.
"Of course I'll tell you the way, though. You go right up
here to the first corner. Then you want to turn to your
right. Then you take the first turn to your left. Then
you take the first turn to your right. Then you go past
two houses and you'll come to a gate. It's a funny gate,
and I'll bet a cooky you never see one like it before. It's
got a great monstrous beam on the top, and way on the
end of that beam there's a box, and the box has got some
big stones in it. You'd think it would be all you could
do to lift it, but it swings around just like nothin'. Ole
McDuff always makes his gates in that way. Well, you
go in there and bear to your right till you come to a stake
and rider fence. You foller that fence to the woods, and
there you'll strike a path. That'll take you to Mrs.
Boyle's. But you'll git sick of it. It's awful dark. You
better come in and stay with me. We'll have a high ole
time."

"It is impossible," replied John. "I promised to go
to Mrs, Boyle's. Thank you for your information."

"Say," exclaimed Julia suddenly. "I know the way
and you don't. I better go along with you and show
you."

"I am much obliged," returned John, "but I can find
the way from the description you gave. I do not want
you to take any such trouble."

"No trouble at all," replied Julia. "I'll be right out."

"No," said John firmly, "I would rather go alone."

"Go it, devil," cried Julia angrily. "Start your stumps.
Don't you never come here again."

A little more than half a mile from Wallace's John
came to four corners and turning south, recrossed the
swamp, which near this point curved to the eastward.
He reached the end of the road, which bent to the left,
proceeded a short distance, circled to the right and
presently arrived at the gate which had been described by
Julia. He found it, as she had said, easy to open.
There was comparatively little friction at the hinges, and
the ponderous beam was so balanced by the end and box
of heavy stones that it did not require lifting. The path
went with many variations to the stake and rider fence,
where it was straight until it reached the woods. The
fence, higher at this place than at others, was securely
staked and wired. Evidently it had been knocked down
by careless pedestrians and rebuilt by the owner of the
land in such a manner as to prevent all depredations
except those of a wanton character.

He was rejoiced when he stood at the edge of a clearing,
from the farther side of which glimmered a light.
His troubles were not yet over. Between him and the
house were thickets of blackberry bushes, which caught in
his clothes and scratched his face and hands. As he
descended the rise of ground at the border of the woods, the
light disappeared, and he groped without guidance to gain
his destination. When he emerged from the thicket, he
found that he had gone some rods out of his way.
Congratulating himself that he had escaped with so few
inconveniences on so dark a night, he advanced to the
house and was admitted by the cattle-buyer, Durgenson.

The cottage into which John stepped was small and
humble, but comfortably furnished. In a corner of the
principal room, which was at once kitchen and parlor,
was a safe with scalloped newspapers placed over the top
and hung on the doors. Near the safe was a table on
which rested some curious stones and a few books. The
walls were covered with paper, and from them were sus-
pended pictures of little art, too long drawn to be called
new, and too modern to be ranked as antiquities. That
a person of Christian principles had assisted in furnishing
the house was indicated by two Bibles, some Sabbath
school papers, some religious works, including the life of
Whitefield and Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, and a
cardboard motto worked in zephyr which read, "Nearer,
my God, to Thee." The only occupant of the cottage
besides Durgenson was a dark-complexioned young man
who had a short, bristling mustache, a sullen, resolute face,
and eyes which were ever eluding the scrutiny of those
whom he met. This evasion of the gaze of others resulted
not from timidity, but from a desire to keep his
thoughts to himself. Indeed, no sagacious observer
would have ascribed cowardice to him, for such an
imputation would have been contradicted by his every
appearance. The lamp on the table was surrounded by
millers, which darted against it, but were prevented by
the chimney from reaching the flame. The young man
busied himself by catching them, thrusting them into the
lamp, and watching their death struggles with the keenest
interest. When Durgenson introduced him, he shook
Wrengells hand, still averting his eyes, and immediately
resumed his occupation of catching millers.

"I was afraid it would be so dark you wouldn't come,"
said the cattle-buyer. "You must have had a bad time
getting through the woods. You kept the business secret,
as I told you?"

"As nearly as I could," replied John. "I could never
have found the way from the description you gave me.
I inquired at a house after I started."

"Is that so?" asked Durgenson. "Where did you inquire?"

"At Wallace's," answered John. "I said nothing
about you. I merely asked the way to Mrs. Boyle's. I
hope it did no damage."

"Oh, no," said Durgenson. "Of course, when I go
into anything, I don't advertise it. But probably no one
will mistrust what you came for. I believe I didn't tell
you what I wanted of you."

"What business do you wish to hire me to do?" asked John.

"The stock business," answered Durgenson. "I want
you to drive and to buy cattle and horses, perhaps sheep."

"But I have had no experience," objected John. "You
would certainly lose if you had me use my poor judgment
in buying."

"Don't be too sure about that," returned Durgenson.
"It's in you, and I know it. I've had my eye on you for
quite a while. I can tell whether I want a man or not the
first time I see him. I care more about honesty than
experience. I had a cowboy to work for me once. He
would guess the weight of a steer almost to a pound
notch. But I wouldn't board that fellow for all he'd do.
He'd get drunk, and then he'd either pay so much that I
lost, or offer so little that the stockmen would get mad
and wouldn't have anything to do with us. Then I had
another hand that was steady and a good buyer, but he
was always smousing me. It's hard to find one that's
just right, mighty hard."

"I have a course of study which I am very anxious to
finish," said John. "I really ought not to give my
attention to new subjects now. But if you hire me, it
will be necessary. What wages do you propose to give?"

"Oh, as to that," Durgenson returned," I can't give
you as much at first as I give an experienced hand. I
wouldn't venture over fifty dollars a month and expenses
for the first three months. After that, if I kept you at
all, I could bid up to seventy-five or a hundred. I'd
want you to commence right off."

"I cannot do that," replied John. "I have hired to
Major Ratke for all summer."

"You are sure you told no one about coming here?"

"No one except Miss Wallace," John replied, "and
the boys at Ratke's did not know which way I came."

"Why I'm so careful," explained Durgenson, "Pease
and I have quite a rivalry. I get the start of him once
in a while, and he beats me when he can. Sometimes,
after I've got a plan ready, he drops on to it and gets
ahead of me. When I begin to hire men, he knows
something is up, and he gets wind of it some way. Now,
I'm satisfied there's money in a car-load of horses to put
in here, and I mean to get them before he does."

Glancing past the cattle-buyer, John saw an ugly shadow
on the wall. It was the head of a man with an abnormally
large nose and a savage, repulsive countenance.
The exaggerated shape was made by the rays of the lamp
falling on the face of young Boyle, who had finished his
insect butchery and was sitting still and silent by the
table. From each of his eyes was reflected a ball of light
something like that which shines from the orb of an
excited cat. John was momentarily impressed by the figure
on the wall and the sullen behavior of the young man,
who, he observed, looked at him often, but avoided
meeting his direct gaze.

"I want you to begin your training to-night, Wrengell,"
said Durgenson; "I've got my horse out here tied to a
tree, and I want you to guess what he's worth."

"What," asked John, "practice an art before learning
the theory? You said that you would give me a book,
so that I could get posted."

"So I will," assured the stockman. "But you ought
to take every opportunity to improve. If you can't afford
to spend the time, I'll give you ten dollars rather than
to have you unprepared when I'm ready to use you. You
will acquire judgment. You'll guess with him, won't you
Alf?"

"Yes," answered young Boyle.

"He's out there in the woods tied to a tree," explained
Durgenson. "The stable door is so narrow I couldn't
make him go through it. You must tell me what he is
best adapted for, running, trotting or pulling."

A bat flew in at a window and displeased with its new
quarters, circled about the room in desperate but
unavailing efforts to escape. Young Boyle rushed at it,
struck it down with a narrow piece of thin board and picking it
up, made sure of its death by crushing it between his fingers.

As he was tossing the lifeless creature through the
window, a woman entered the door which had admitted
John, She was about fifty years of age, was plainly
dressed, and, John thought, had the most benevolent face
he had ever seen. She appeared astonished at finding
so many occupants in the house, and looked from John to
Durgenson as if to ascertain the object or objects of their
visit.

"What are you here for?" growled young Boyle, with
an oath. "I thought you was goin' to stay to Blake's
all night."

"Mrs. Blake is better," responded the woman meekly,
"Mrs. Sparks and Mrs. Holmes are both there, and they
said I might as well come home, I have been up two
nights in succession, and I can rest better here than
there."

"I'd have stayed till momin' an' got my breakfast," said
Boyle. "You've earned your board there, I guess."

"This is Mr. Durgenson, I think," remarked the woman,
after a long survey of the cattle-buyer.

"That is my name," replied Durgenson, "but I don't
remember where we ever got acquainted."

"I am Mrs. Boyle," said the woman, "We met at
Chicago after the death of Mr. and Mrs. Lehmann. Perhaps
you will remember that Mr. Boyle and I were their
nearest neighbors."

"Oh, yes," answered Durgenson, with a show of uneasiness,
"It was so long ago I wouldn't have recognized
you if you hadn't spoken about our being acquainted."

"And this young man," said Mrs. Boyle, "I have
never met him."

"Excuse me," Durgenson apologized, "I'll introduce
you."

John wondered that so refined a lady should have so
brutal a son. It struck him that he was having a generous
share of her attention and that, courteous as she had
seemed, she was allowing her curiosity to master her
civility.

"That looks like a violin case," said Mrs. Boyle. "Do
you play, Mr. Wrengell?"

"I have had some practice on that instrument," replied John.

"I wish you would play for us," said Mrs. Boyle, "I
like to hear music."

The lady's interest in John apparently increased as she
listened to the strains of the violin. Her eyes brightened;
the kindly expression on her face was intensified to a
degree which reached regard and love.

"That is beautiful," she said, when John had finished
the air. "I have thought that the violin ought to be used
in church. There is truth in saying that the Devil ought
not to be allowed all the best music. I hope you don't
play for dances."

"No, ma'am," he replied. "That is, not for public
dances," he added, recollecting his performance in the
club-house.

"I am glad to hear that," said the lady. "You could
do so much good if you wished. Think how many you
could draw to the house of God, some that would not
come for anything only to hear good music. There is a
great responsibility resting on you, Mr. Wrengell. You
must use your talents rightly or they may be taken
away."

John felt at this gentle rebuke a sense of shame which
would not have been imparted by harsher censure.

"I presume you play on other instruments," continued
Mrs. Boyle. "A good organ player can make himself
very useful. The organ is used so much for sacred
music."

A loud squalling, as of some cats about to engage in
desperate battle, arose outside the cottage. On hearing
the sound Boyle sprang up and went hurriedly to a bedroom
where he rummaged noisily about, but he soon reappeared,
bearing a double-barreled shotgun.

"What are you going to shoot, Alfred?" inquired
Mrs. Boyle.

"I'm a-goin' to shoot them cats," returned the young
fellow, whom we, like Durgenson, will call Alf.

"Oh, don't do that," protested Mrs. Boyle. "It may
be Mr. Lowry's Bob. You know how much they think
of him."

"Let 'em keep him to home, then," gruffly returned
Alf, passing out of the house. "There'll be a howlin'
out here all night. I won't lose my rest for no cat." 

In a few minutes he returned, disappointed, from his
hunt. Resuming his chair by the table, he sat with his
forehead so traversed by wrinkles that its primarily narrow
surface was much diminished and his eyebrows almost
met his hair. After a short occupation of this
seat, he arose and again went to the bedroom. When he
emerged, he walked straight to the outside door, looking
neither to the right nor to the left.

"Are you going away, Alfred?" asked Mrs. Boyle,
with an anxiety which she could not suppress.

"It's none o' your bisness where I'm goin', "he replied,
turning furiously about, the wrinkles on his brow
changed in direction from horizontal to perpendicular,
"I'm of age, I thank you."

"Now, Wrengell," said Durgenson when Alf's footsteps
were no longer audible to them, "we'd like to hear
another tune. At least, I would."

John complied with Durgenson's request and putting
his violin in its case, announced his intention to leave.

"Oh, what's the use of being in a hurry?" said the
cattle-buyer. "You've got all night to go home in. I'll
light you through the woods with a lantern."

"Will you do an errand for me?" asked Mrs. Boyle.

"Certainly," answered John. "What do you wish?"

"Take a letter to Mrs. Grippin if you will. I will see
if I can find it."

Mrs. Boyle lighted a lamp, proceeded to the bedroom
and closed the door. Presently she came out with two
envelopes in her hand.

"I am sorry to keep you waiting," she said, handing John
an envelope. "I haven't my glasses on. Perhaps you
can tell which one of these is directed to Mrs. Grippin."

When she had finished speaking, Mrs. Boyle stood between
John and Durgenson, close to the latter, so that the
view between the two men was almost wholly obstructed.
The first envelope which John scanned was addressed to
Mrs. Cyrus Boyle, Detroit, Mich. The second bore the
following inscription: "Do not go back the way you
came. Go back of the house and you will find a road
that you must follow. Look out for Durgenson and my
son. Remember."

John could hardly repress a start of surprise as he read
this warning, which made a strong and instantaneous
impression. Neither in the appearance of Mrs. Boyle nor in
that of Durgenson was there any confirmation of the message.
Her countenance was still untroubled, and he was
as smiling and good-natured as ever.

"I'll go with you," said Durgenson. "We'll want a
lantern. We can't get through without."

"Thank you," returned John, "I shall not need your
help."

"Now don't forget my errand," said Mrs. Boyle. "My
son is careless once in a while. You must remember."

"If you'll get a lantern, Mrs. Boyle," said Durgenson,
"I'll go to the fields with him. He'll never find the way
out alone."

"No," said John, in a positive tone, "I do not need any
company, nor am I anxious to have a lantern."

"I'd. like to speak to you a minute," remarked Durgenson,
"just a minute."

"Come to Major Ratke's, then," John returned, as he
quickly left the room.
