HAPTER XVII.
WHAT HAPPENED IN THE SWAMP.

The night was lighter than it had been when John arrived
at Mrs. Boyle's. The curtain which shrouded the
sky was torn in a few places, and through the rents here
and there was gleaming a star.

John ran across the cleared space back of the house,
meeting but one obstacle, a stump, which threw him and
slightly bruised his leg. The interval between the house
and the woods, or more properly the brush, was short;
and it was not long before he was in the woods to which
Mrs. Boyle had alluded. It had formerly been a wagon
track, but of late it had been so seldom used by teams
that one side of it was grown over with weeds, although
the other was beaten down by foot passengers. Its width
aided him in keeping it, and, moreover, the near bushes
by their sharp briars notified him whenever he encroached
on their territory.

He began to feel that his alarm in the house was
unnecessary and that he had acted rudely toward Durgenson,
who certainly had given him no cause for such treat-
ment. His refusal of guidance through the woods seemed
to him every moment more rude and uncalled for. And
yet he could account for Mrs. Boyle's warning only by
one of two suppositions, that she had some reason for her
extraordinary caution or that she was insane. After she
had handed him the envelope, she had disarmed the suspicion
of the cattle-buyer by calmness and feigned indifference,
such as might be used by a sly lunatic who was
planning to deceive his keeper. He resolved that at the
next opportunity he would amply apologize to Durgenson,
though he could not imagine a way in which he might
explain his uncivil departure.

The road ended at the edge a field, beyond which
was some large timber, which was faintly visible. The
intervening ground had been recently plowed by some
unenterprising farmer who was late in the preparation of his
summer fallow. Much of it lay up in large masses, which
fell in pieces when it was trodden upon, for the dry
weather had not baked it as it had the more easily
influenced clay. John debated whether he would follow the
edge of the improvement or enter the woods, but he soon
adopted the latter course.

A short, distance from the field was a steep descent leading
to the swamp, which here, at the end of a considerable
stretch to the east, turned abruptly southward. He was
at the bottom of the hill, preparing to return to the
higher ground, when he heard in the bushes at his right a
crashing, which, had he been in an eastern tropical jungle,
he might have imagined to be made by a hippopotamus or
an elephant. The crashing, together with its supplement,
the sound of heavy and frequent blows from a cudgel,
receded farther to the interior of the swamp. The day and
the night of unusual circumstances had fortified John
against surprises, yet they had not so far stripped him of
curiosity as to keep him from wishing to unravel the
mystery. Leaving his violin by a tree which he thought he
could readily find, he followed the retreating noise, which,
though varying in volume, was continuous and was an
excellent safeguard against his being discovered by those
who made it. It occurred to him that in thus dogging the
footsteps of others, when he could assign no good reason
for so doing, he was playing an unworthy part; but, as
many a comparatively upright man had done before him,
he subordinated his strictest sense of honor to the
fulfillment of his desire. He soon came near enough to the
disturbance to ascertain that two men were conducting a
horse through the swamp, one leading him by a halter,
the other occasionally belaboring him with a tamarack

"Touch him up," said Wallace, who held the halterstrap
and a lantern. "We won't get out of here till morning
unless we're careful."

"I'll warm his ole sides," responded Ab. "Git along
here with you."

"You want to look out, Ab," warned the father, "You
don't know who's prowling around."

"Oh, you're always a worryin', dad," returned Ab,
"I'm a-talkin' low. There ain't anybody goin' to poke
around here at one o'clock for fun."

"Yes, the first thing we know we'll get gobbled,"
complained Wallace. "There'll be a pile of profit in that,
I've agood notion to say I'll quit this kind of work. You
can't make much of a living at it. There, I've got my
foot in one of them devilish holes again! I'm wet clear
up to my hips. I don't expect anything but what I'll be
sick to-morrow with the rheumatism."

"Oh, this'll only just limber you up, dad," consoled Ab.
"You ain't dead yet. You can grunt."

"I wish you wouldn't be so cunning," returned Wallace,
with a whine. "It don't feel funny to be all crippled up.
You know how I was last winter and you hadn't ought to
laugh."

"Why don't you laugh, too? That's what 'ud do you
good. Come, chirk up, dad. Less hear how 'twould
sound for you to talk without that whine."

"If you felt like I do, you wouldn't be so chipper," said
Wallace.

They had now reached a lower and thinner growth of
bushes, where John could not follow them so closely as he
had done without incurring a strong risk of detection.
For a time, therefore, their conversation was unintelligible
to him. As they entered the tamaracks, he quickened his
pace and was presently at no great distance from them.

This was several miles below the retreat which had
been fitted by Montcalm, and the use of which had been
abandoned on account of the possibility that it had been
discovered during the great hunt and that it would be
secretly watched.

"I wish we had a market for these horses, dad," said
Ab, "We'd make something then."

"I'm a-going to have a bigger share of 'em than I git
now," said Wallace, "or I won't work."

"That's what you've said before," replied Ab, "but
you keep right on."

"Well, there's no use of it," said Wallace. "I can do
such business just as well as Montcalm can. He won't
fool me much longer. I'll make him an offer; and then,
if he don't come to my terms, we'll go it on our own
hook."

"Now you're showin' some spunk," returned Ab. "We
can sell horses as well as he can. He's one of the
middlemen you tell about. Takes all of the profits and don't
labor himself."

"There wouldn't be any trouble about selling 'em,"
declared Wallace. "When you get the start of me on a
horse dicker, you've got to be up in the morning, I ain't
a bit afraid but what I could show Trace Montcalm a
trick or two."

"Who do you suppose the boss is that he's tellin' so
much about?" asked Ab.

"I don't believe there is any," said Wallace. "That's
one of his lies. He thought if he said that, he could grind
our faces under a kind of a monopoly. I'll let him know
what I think about it, too. I ain't dependent on him."

"Less have the whole benefit of this one ourselves,"
proposed Ab. "We're sharp enough for that. We can
sell him and not be caught. We can do anything
Montcalm can."

"We'll see," said Wallace. "Hold the horse while I
pull up these few trees in front. I wish Whipple knew
how to break a colt. This one won't half lead."

Ab had started for the purpose of taking the halterstrap,
when the animal, jerking away from the elder
Wallace, plunged among the trees, which at this place
were not unusually thick, and circling about a large fallen
tamarack, went toward the hard land in a course parallel
with the road. Ab raced hurriedly back along the cleared
strip, turning his head to one side, although his attempts
to see the beast which he wished to intercept were
necessarily unavailing. So intent was he on securing his lost
plunder and so little light came through the tops of the
trees, that without warning he came full against John, who
was in the act of rising from his crouching position.
Quickly gathering himself, he rushed among the tamaracks
exclaiming, "Run, dad, run!"

The lantern which Wallace carried was immediately
extinguished. The sounds of three bodies, one at the left
and two at the right, were heard moving through the
swamp. John endeavored to follow one of the objects at
the right. He had no hope or intention of capturing the
Wallaces, who at such a place and at such an hour would
prove inconvenient prisoners to one man unsupported.
It was, he thought, advisable for him to secure the colt,
restore him to his owner, and testify to what he had seen
and heard. Groping carefully and keeping his hands before
his face were necessary precautions for protection
against the limbs, some of which were dry, pointed, and
hard. The horse was moving from him, but its retreat
was slower than his advance. It was proceeding toward
an opening in the tamaracks, through which could be seen
patches of nearly cloudless sky.

This opening was on each side of the creek which ran
lengthwise of the swamp. On the bank of the stream the
colt stood, undecided as to which direction he should
pursue. When John went toward him, he did not run
away, but turning, remained with his heels suggestively
presented. The man again made a circuit, and again the
horse anticipated his design and gave a quiet but
significant challenge, John persevered long in his endeavors,
but at last, seeing their uselessness, he decided to retrace
his way, giving no further notice to the colt. Accordingly,
he set out to regain the road which he had quitted; but
he had no sooner undertaken this task than he was
followed by the colt, which seemed bent on keeping neither
afar off nor in close proximity. Near a tall stub which
loomed above the smaller trees, he stopped to ascertain
his location and the course which it was best
for him to follow. He was in a stunted, rather
thin growth of the tamaracks. About him were trunks,
the diameters of which were out of proportion to their
heights, and limbs which reached far outward as if vainly
trying to extend themselves over the entire surface of the
ground. Farther on were the tops of the smaller trees
which were too dense for penetration by the vision of one
who was not in their midst. After he had calculated upon
his probable distance from the place which he wished to
reach, he selected a conspicuous broken tree-top as a
landmark and advanced toward it. From this he was obliged
to proceed unaided by a visible goal, for the trees were
so nearly of a height and so close together that a distance
of a few feet sufficed to make them indistinguishable. He
thought the way to the road very long and very tedious.
Now and then he halted to make observations, but as
they were invariably limited to thirty square rods of
swamp and an indefinite expanse of sky, they were productive
of no good. It was with a feeling of relief that he saw
the perceptible stretch of the now well-lighted heavens
move downward and expand as the tamaracks diminished
in stature. But his joy was dissipated when he found that
he had traversed a circle and returned to the broken tree
which he had left a few minutes before. Once more he
set out, and once more, making the circuit, came back to
the familiar stub. He now concluded that by another
direction he would try to reach the upland. His next attempt
was to return to the creek, and this he accomplished.
It was now morning. He wandered up and down the
creek, but he was unable to find a ford. In desperation
he retreated a few paces from the stream and running up
to the edge, jumped with all his might.

The creek was so wide that a trained athlete might not
easily have cleared it at a leap; and he landed, therefore,
in the muddy bottom, where he sank above his waist.
Luckily for him, he struck within reach of some bushes,
which afforded so good a hold that by hard pulling he
was able to extricate himself. Striking out from this
point, he met with the same success which had attended
his efforts on the opposite side.

But by following the creek, he reasoned, in the course
of a mile or two he would arrive at a public highway.
With this end in view he proceeded down the left bank.
A walk of thirty rods brought him to a bridge which was
curiously constructed of poles. Across it teams and
wagons had been driven, and from the right bank branched
two roads. Passing over the creek, he took the left track,
which turned and led him back to the bridge. He recrossed
it, satisfied that he was in a fair way to reach the
improvements. The colt, which had awaited him on the
right bank, and had followed him along the circuitous road
approached the edge, snorted, stepped on the poles carefully
at first, and then finished the risky passage with a
sudden rush. The road wound among the trees, its
undulations indicating the way which had been most easy
to clear, it brought John to some scattered bushes
bordering a sandy slope where blossomed buckwheat was
growing. He gained the eminence and beheld the welcome
signs of civilization--houses, farms, orchards and
cultivated fields. The sun was well up, and the hour for
beginning farm labor had arrived. Between him and the
nearest house young cattle and milk cows were grazing.
Near the road and far to the right a boy was riding a
wheel cultivator. The creak of a plow wheel came
from the opposite side of an untrimmed hedge at
the left. The hedge gave place to a board fence about
midway in the line of division which separated the two
fields. As John climbed the fence, the plow approached,
drawn by two bay horses, one of which was wind-broken.
The plowman had a sunburned, rather disagreeable
countenance. He wore an old felt hat which was tucked
under at the sides, so that it stuck out in peaks before
and behind.

"Good-morning," said John.

"Good-morning, sir," responded the plowman.

"Can you tell me where I am?" asked John.

"I guess I can," answered the plowman. "Looks to
me as if you was in my field."

"I got lost in the swamp," said John, "and I have no
idea where I am. Am I still in Jefferson Township?"

"No," replied the man, "you ain't in that county.
You're in Washtenaw, now, township of Warren."

"I wish to go to Break o'Day," said John. "Will you
please direct me so that I can find the way?"

"Go to the road and make north. By and by you'll
come to the forks. One comes here and one goes to
Sharptown. You want to take the handle and that leads
to Break o'Day. Helloa, is that your horse?"

The exclamation was caused by the colt, which had
trotted to the fence and was whinnying to the team.

"No," answered John, "he followed me from the
swamp."

"Followed you from the swamp!" echoed the plowman.
"That's funny that he should be in there."

"Yes," said John, thinking it best to impart his newly
gained information first to the authorities and afterward
to the owner of the horse, "I found him there, and he
seemed as anxious to get out as I."

"Did you catch him?"

"No, I did not."

"I'm going to try it now," said the man, climbing the
fence. "Oh, you bloody brute!" he ejaculated, quickly
retreating, as the colt whirled and stood with his heels
toward him.

"Can I get something to eat at your house?" inquired
John.

"Well, now, I don't know. It's just as the woman
says about that. You can go up and ask her."

In twenty minutes John was leaving the house with his
hunger appeased. It was with self-congratulations on his
escape from the swamp, that, avoiding the graveled walk
which lay between circular beds of flowers, he passed
through the large gate and took long, steady strides toward
Break o'Day.
