CHAPTER XX.
A GOOD SAMARITAN.

"Quick!", said Mrs. Boyle. "They'll be here in a few
minutes. I know where you can hide. Come on. Oh,
dear! You can't come. Lean on my shoulder."

With the help of Mrs. Boyle John made his way through
the bushes. His lame ankle was frequently twisted in
his haste. The briars scratched the hands and faces both
of him and of his companion. She conducted him to a
brush pile which was nearly grown over with running
blackberry vines; and letting go his arm, she threw back
the trailing cover from the dry sticks and leaves, among
which she hastily prepared a place for his reception.
John lay down on the heap, where he was covered by the
brush which Mrs. Boyle had removed and lastly by the
long vines, the meshes of which made the signs of the
disturbance less conspicuous.

"They're right here," said the lady hurriedly. "I'll run
to the house and stay till they've gone, and then I'll
come back."

Mrs. Boyle hastened to the house, which she began to
sweep. While she was thus engaged, Alf, with several
companions, came to the door. Their faces were red,
their coats and vests had been taken off, their shirts
were drenched with perspiration.

"Have you seen a feller go by here?" inquired Boyle.

"What kind of looking man?" asked Mrs. Boyle.

"I don't care a --- what kind of a lookin' feller,"
returned Alf. "Have you seen anybody go by?"

"No, I haven't," said Mrs. Boyle.

"Some folks never see nothin'," said Alf, as he started
away. "Come on, boys. He's gone on, I guess."

"Will you be back to dinner, Alfred?" inquired Mrs.
Boyle.

"'Tain't none o' your bisness when I'll be back," answered
Alf." I ain't no little boy that's bound to give
an account for every step I take."

Other men shortly followed, scattering along as they
varied in the respective qualities of speed, endurance and
determination. It was more than an hour before all the
stragglers had passed the house. Those who were last
had waited for the third trips of the fishing-boats, or had
been delayed by going around the lake. As soon as Mrs.
Boyle considered it safe to do so, she went to the
hiding-place where she had left Wrengell. She wondered, when
she reached the spot, that it had not been marked by the
pursuing parties. The vines had been drawn over the
brush with such haste that some of them were turned
with the berries and upper sides of the leaves down.
She removed the covering and assisted John to rise.

"You must have thought I would never come," she
said. "They were so long in going by I didn't dare try
it before. You see I've brought you some crutches.
They may be too short for you, but I think you can use
them. Alfred had them when he cut his foot. We will
go to the house now."

"It will not do for me to go there," said John. "They
will certainly find me if I do. How could I stay in the
house with your son without being discovered?"

"You can't stay here," returned Mrs. Boyle. "They'll
be back, and they'll hunt these brush all through. They
won't think of looking for you in the house. Alfred
doesn't stay there much. Sometimes he's away a week
at a time. You can go up into the loft. There are no
stairs and we never go up there; that is, we haven't been
up for six months. Alfred got mad one time and he left
the ladder up there. You see, there's nothing else you
can do. You can't lie on the ground with that lame
ankle, and besides, you'd be caught."

These arguments were convincing to John. In a few
minutes he was in the loft. After his ascent, Mrs. Boyle
thrust a chair through the opening, bidding him, as he
valued his safety to maintain perfect silence. She then
directed John to draw up the ladder, and prepared to build
a fire. The roof of the chamber was unsealed. Its inner
portion was covered with rough boards, some of which
were slabs. Built along them at frequent intervals, were
wasp-nests whose dwellers were buzzing about the room.

In a few minutes Mrs, Boyle appeared, "We must
have your boot off," she said.

"I have tried that," replied John, "but it will not
come."

"We will have to cut it loose," said Mrs. Boyle. "Let
me take your knife now, please."

With the knife she cut stitches and leather, and in a
short time she gently removed the boot. She thought it
advisable also to strip loose the stocking in the same way.
The deformed foot was badly swollen. The sixth toe, the
sole constituent of the deformity, was a squat, dwarfish
body, sticking from an extensive puff. John, wearied by
his long run and racked by suffering, was yet morbidly
sensitive to an exposure of the misshapen part. Mrs,
Boyle applied hot cloths to the injured ankle and handed
him a bottle of camphor for application. She did not
wound his feelings by an allusion to the malformation,
nor did she appear to notice it. John could not explain
her indifference to so unusual a sight. It argued either
that she had perfect control over her actions, or that she
had previously known of his misfortune.

"I see you haven't any coat or vest," said Mrs. Boyle.
"Where did you leave them?"

"In the grass on this side of the lake," answered John.
"I was very warm and I could run better with them off,"

"Up by the dock where you can find them when you
get well?"

"About two or three rods from it, I threw them near
a large tree, and I will have no trouble in finding
them."

"I am afraid it will be a long time before you can
walk," said Mrs. Boyle. "You will have a tedious time
of it. Be careful and don't wrench your ankle in the
least. It will get well a great deal sooner provided you
keep it perfectly still. I'll bring up your dinner now and
mine, too, I didn't eat much when Alfred was here."

"Are you not afraid of eating with a horse-thief?"
asked John.

"No," returned Mrs. Boyle, "you never stole horses.
As soon as you feel strong enough, you must tell me how
they came to accuse you of any such thing. They are
almost all miserable men that I saw go by, --- I mean the
ones that I am acquainted with. I knew five or six of
them, and only two are what people call good citizens."

John was cautioned by Mrs. Boyle not to get so close
to a window as to be visible to a person outside. While
they were eating, and while she kept watch on the
several avenues by which the house was likely to be
approached, he related a part of the adventures which he
had experienced since they parted after their first meeting.
He did not reveal the identity of the Wallaces, or
allude to their conversation respecting Montcalm.

"It is a disgrace," said Mrs. Boyle, "that Dr. Rorus
will drink and sell liquor so. He used to be called a
smart man when he kept sober, but drink has nearly
ruined his mind and his practice. No one ever sees him
now, except when he has been drinking. Break o' Day
used to be a peaceful place. Now they have awful fights
there, and drunken men are around all the time. There
is a law against selling liquor, but nobody tries to put it
in force, although every one but the drunkards complain.
Once in a while I think it's my duty to make legal
complaint, but I do dread it so, and then Alfred, you know,
he is, well, quick-tempered, he would be mad. I am
afraid I don't always do as I ought to, just because it
isn't pleasant."

John doubted that there was a just occasion for Mrs.
Boyle's fear. He believed that she was incapable of
committing a wrong act. He had never seen another
countenance which had so much benignity, such an expression
of self-forgetfulness and concern for the comfort
of others. She kept a fire in the stove, and at intervals
brought up hot water in which to dip the cloths for the
swollen limb. Mrs. Boyle did not venture to eat supper
with ]ohn in the Joft. She was apprehensive lest Alf
might change his mind and return when he was least
expected. At sunset she carried a feather tick and some
clothes to the chamber and arranged for John a comfortable
bed, When this ws done, she descended; and
a few seconds later John heard her leave the house.
Her absence was countinued for an hour, but finally she
reappeared in the loft with a bundle under her arm.

"I am mad," said John. "You have been to the lake
after my coat and vest. You have worked so hard that
you ought not to have gone down there, tramping
through the grass."

"It did not hurt me in the least," said Mrs. Boyle. "I
found them in five minutes."

Wrengell had reason to be thankful. He had escaped
a vindictive mob, and if he had sustained injury, he had
fallen into the hands of a good Samaritan who had dressed
his wounds and paid his reckoning at an inn. Unused
to sleeping among the strange noises which pervaded
the forest, he lay awake the greater portion of the night.
He heard, oft repeated, the hooting of an owl, Sometimes
distant, sometimes near, always monotonous. more
interesting to him, because he did not know their origin,
were the cries of two raccoons which were calling to each
other from different parts of the wood.

It was after daylight when he awoke from one brief
nap which he had obtained. The wasps were humming
about the apartment. Below, Mrs Boyle was stepping
about briskly preparing breakfast. John was in no hurry
to rise, for he lacked a profitable occupation. He lay
long looking up at the rough roof boards, on the surface
of which were dark weather-stains and those rings which
record the years of the oak. His left leg was useless for
purposes of travel. He dressed, took his crutches and,
heedless of the injunctions which Mrs. Boyle had given
him, opened a window and leaned half his body outside.
The clearing was bounded on two sides by brush. These
suroundings might have been forbidding had they not
been before a background of fine timber. Some
industrious man had chopped off a considerable amount of
ground. John reached the conclusion that her son was
adverse to using the ax and the brush-hook.

The window where Wrengell was seated looked out on
a fine stretch of wood. The trees, which were mostly of
oak, were clad in the full magnificence of summer. An
unusual number of them had large, straight trunks, 
running many feet high without a limb and surmounted by
well-formed, wide-spreading tops.

Near the edge of the timber a monster grape-vine was
coiled about a sapling, nearly enveloping it and completely
overspreading its branches at the top.

The tree was bent, as if its heavy burden had brought
in youth the decrepitude of age. It was like some patient
boy, who, deprived of recreation, sinks without a
complaint under the weight of tasks, the endurance of which
requires the strength of manhood.

A black squirrel, apparently attracted by the infrequent
spectacle, hopped leisurely to the sapling, which he
proceeded to climb. He worked his way through, and
seated on the top mat of vines, began earnestly to chatter.
When he tired of this situation, he leaped to the limb of
a large white oak and again sounded his calls. He was
joined by another squirrel, which chased him round and
round the body of the tree. The second arrival made
only a short stay, but the first lingered after the departure
of his companion. Going to the extreme end of a long
limb which reached within a few feet of the house, he
looked mischievously in at the window. John was pleased
with the innocent gambols of the animal. He was about
to push his head through the window, from which he had
withdrawn, when the report of a gun rang out and the
squirrel tumbled to the ground. As helplessly floundering,
the little creature strove to escape, Alf rushed up and
catching him by the tail struck his head several times
against the tree. He continued the blows until the last
shudder had passed through the inanimate frame.

John, looking through a knot-hole in the side of the
house, feared that Alf might see the open window and mis-
trust the presence of a stranger. He knew by the brutality
which he had so often witnessed that the ruffian, if
he could avoid the penalties of the law, would delight in
taking his life. After Alf had disappeared from his view,
he crawled forward to let down the sash, but at that
moment he heard his step below.

"Here's a squirrel, ma," said Boyle. "Can you cook
him for breakfast?"

"I won't have time to dress him," replied Mrs. Boyle.
"I'll cook him for dinner."

"No, you don't have time for nothin'," rejoined Alf.
"It can't keep you very busy to cook for two. I won't
be here to dinner. I s'pose, though, you can eat him ail
yourself if you want to."

"Why can't you be here at dinner?" asked Mrs. Boyle.
"Don't you think I ever get lonesome?"

The conversaiion between Alf and Mrs. Boyle was
limited. As the young man was about to leave, he said;

"I want a dollar."

"I can't very well spare it," replied Mrs. Boyle.

"I've got to have it," returned Alf. "They ain't no
use o' talkin', I must have it."

"I have use for it. It was only last Monday that I let
you have two dollars,"

"That ain't got nothin' to do with to-day. If I didn't
need it, I wouldn't ask you. You might just as well git
it as to fool around, for I won't be monkeyed with."

Mrs. Boyle reluctantly procured the desired sum for
Alf, who departed on receiving it. She looked troubled
when she brought John his breakfast.

Wrengell's quarters were tolerably comfortable. He had
not, indeed, many luxuries. Mrs. Boyle furnished him a
few books, but they were of a character such as, it must
be confessed, is interesting to few young persons. They
were religious works, treatises on piety, and biographies of
religious people. A strong recommendation for perusing
them, however, was the daily life of the woman by whom
they were read. She was never idle, and rarely working
for her own benefit. She daily visited the sick woman,
Mrs. Blake, and John guessed that she carried her
medicine, delicaciesand staple provisions. There were,
besides, others to who she ministered. She did not tell
John of her charity, but he saw direct and circumstantial
evidence to convince him that his surmises were correct.
One afternoon a small boy came to her house and alluded
to a coat which she had given him.

John was awakened the fourth night after his arrival
by the gruff voice of Alf in the lower room. The
worthless fellow was repeating his demand for money, which
Mrs. Boyle was resisting.

[nh 196]

"You want to know about every cent I spend," he said,
"just as though I was a twoyear-old young one. I
thank you, I ain't tied to your apron-strings now."

"I can't give it to you to-night, Alfred," said Mrs.
Boyle.

"Can't is a big word with you," said Alf. "That's
what you say every time, but you manage to find money
when you want to. I've got to have it to-night because
I'm goin' away, I won't be back in a week, maybe

"Why, what have you been doing ?" cried Mrs. Boyle,
"You have got into trouble."

"S'posin' 1 have," said Alf. "I can git out of it with-
out consultin' you. You git what I want, and I'll manage
the rest."

"I have let you have all I can," replied Mrs. Boyle.
"I'm afraid you don't make good use of. it."

"It don't make no difference what use I make of it,"
returned Alf, "If you don't git it, I'll burn your ole
shanty down. Now you can bet your boots on that."

"It is the Lord's," returned Mrs. Boyle firmly, "and
I must keep it."

"Then, if it's His, he hadn't ought to have it layin*
round here," said the profane Alf.

"Oh, Alfred," cried the distressed woman, "how can
you be so wicked .' I have tried to bring you up right
and cried about you and give you more than I keep
myself. But this I have promised to apply to the Lord's
purpose. Don't talk so, and don't try to make me sin by
breaking my promises ! "

"Be you a-goin' to git me that money ?" asked Alf.

"No," said Mrs, Boyle, "it is God's and I must keep
it,"

Alf was furious with rage. He uttered a savage oath,
raised his fist, struck her a blow which sent her reeling
against the wall and ran from the room. As soon as the
dispute threatened a serous termination, John arose and
began to dress. The blow from Alf's fist was struck
just before Jig reacije*^ ^^ opening which led below.



AAT o'Day. 197

: lowered himself by

Dhn. "I will teach

pleaded, sobbing in
'ou mustn't say any-
11 kill you ! ???'
John.' "He struck
hoot him I "
'??? you wouldn't shoot

d John. "No such
