CHAPTER XXI.

CONTROVERSY AND REMINISCENCE.

The affair at Break o'Day caused more excitement
than the murder of Green, and was the most notable event
which had happened in the vicinity that season. Repre-
sentatives of the Jackson and Ann Arbor Press visited
the hamlet, which in a few weeks acquired more reputa-
tion than it had hitherto gained in half a century. From
Wingscheut a reporter obtained a sensational and valu-
able budget of news. His paper stated that the valiant
German had been fated singularly often to meet the
horse-thieves, that in the spring he had an encounter
with them when they were escaping with a horse at the
barn of a farmer named Spartus, that in the swamp near
Break o'Day he . maintained, unarmed and unaided, a
combat with four of them, and that, had he been properly
supported, the entire gang might have been captured.

The Jackson " Goad,^' a sheet published with the avowed
purpose of prodding beyond endurance the party then in
power, was especially active in making inquiries about
Wrengell. It gave a highly colored account of the young
man^s sojourn at Ratke's. It dwelt minutely on his reti-
cence respecting his former residence and occupation.
It declared that a man unused to deeds of violence
could never show such nerve and determination as he had
manifested. It related how he had been detained by the
order-loving citizens of Break o'Day, how he had broken
loose from their restraint, knocking them right and left,
how he had fearlessly charged upon and ^driven back a
group of men at the dock, how he had sought an en-
counter with the boats and had done some phenomenally
close shooting at Jong range.

The rfiajor w^^ wrotl^ ^^ ^^^ wrong done his hired man.
He visited Rorus anH talked to him with such sternness



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA V. 199

that the doctor did not as usual reply in a long series of
co-ordinate terms capped by an anti-climax. He told him
that he should hold him responsible for the injury which
Wrengell received, and that if one of his men ever again
was subjected to so much as an affront at the drug-store,
he would administer a personal castigation to its proprietor.
Directly after the appearance of the exaggerated article in
the "Goad" Ratke called on the editor and demanded that
retraction be made at once. The next week the story
was modified ; but after it was shorn of its absolute un-
truths, it still bore strong testimony against Wrengell.

The startling occurrences which agitated Ratke*s neigh-
bors did not keep him from the contemplation of his in-
ventions. He had engaged an Oakville blacksmith to
iron his Jerusalem wagon, which he decided to take in
pieces and put on another vehicle for transportation. As
the several parts were too heavy to be lifted easily by one
man, he ordered Jake to assist him.

** I expect to create a sensation with my wagon in a few
weeksj Jake," said the philosopher. *' If it becomes
famous, you can' boast that you had a hand in preparing
the first perfect model."

"Put this *ere rattletrap in the hind end ?" asked Jake,
as he picked up a pair of wheel-posts, seemingly uncon-
scious of his honorable function.

"Now, Jake," said the major, when he was ready to
start to Oakville, "you may haul the wood which you and
John sawed. I would like to be able to say that my in-
ventions are used to a great extent on my farm. You may
draw the wood with the Old Jerusalem. 1 intend to go
to Jackson, and shall no doubt be gone until five o'clock."

Jake had a special aversion to the products of his em-
ployer's genius. With rebellion in his heart he hitched a
team to the Old Jerusalem. He had driven but a few
rods whfen the reach came unfastened and letting one end
of the box fall to the ground, slid him speedily down the
smooth bottom boards. Many minutes were occupied in
readjusting the detached parts. Impatient of delay, he
climbed on the wagon and spoke sharply to the team, but
the tongue with the whiffletrees was jerked loos?, and he
was nearly pulled from his position by the lines. The last



7

If



J



t



200 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK o'Day.

accident intensified his disgust, which he had before
restrained with difficulty. He hitched the horses to a
pair of trucks, and with this equipment hauled the wood in
the forenoon some hours sooner than the major thought
the woik would be completed.

Ratke, who drove no farther than Oakville, returned to
the farm at eleven o'clock. After caring for his team, he
went to the field where Montcalm was at work.

"Trace," said the major, "that article which you sent

to the Indianapolis "Standard" will greatly benefit me.

P You described my wagon in fine terms. You could never

I have obtained its insertion if you had not once been a

reporter for the paper. Such an account coming from a
distance will make me and my inventions respected more
at home. A great name, to be acquired in one's own
neighborhood, must be imported. We may call this the
endosmose of reputation."

In passing the barns Ratke noticed that the trucks
were not in their accustomed place under a shed. His
anger was kindled at sight of Jake, who was throwing off
his last load of wood from another vehicle than the Old
Jerusalem.

"Jake," said the displeased inventor, hurrying to the
wood-pile, "I told you expressly to use the Old Jerusalem.
Why did you take the trucks t "

"'Cause," replied Sheppard, "I wanted to git done
some time today. I didn't like to fuss."

"I pay you for your time," returned Ratke. *' When
you do as I tell you, it is my lookout if your service is un-
profitable. After this you use the tool I give you to work
with."

"I don't like no such 'rangement as the Jerus'lem,"
rejoined Jake. "The ole thingumbob ain't good for
nothin', an' never was."

"Jake," said the major, "it is not your place to question
the wisdom of my plans. I am quite capable of directing
my own affairs. VVhenever you are unwilling to obey my
insiructiousy you may quit my employ."

'' I guess 1 better Qixit now," said Jake. "We never
liad no \irords till to^J^y. an' we never want none."
/ "^ow "JucA do X \jre yo^ -^" inquired the major.



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK. O' DA Y. 20 1

"You ain't paid me nothin' for two years," answered
Sheppard, "an' there's some back that I earnt afore
that."

"Is that so ?" ejaculated the major, ashamed that he
was unable to pay his discharged hired man. "I will get
it for you as soon as I can, Jake."

"They gener'ly make reckonin' on payin' a man when
they ship him," said Jake, "but you needn't be in no hurry
about it. I'll let you know when I want it."

"Never mind throwing off the wood," said the major.
"Come in to dinner. I will have Mark take care of the
team."

"I'm much obliged," returned Jake. "I'll take care of
'em myself and finish up my job at the wood. I don't care
for no dinner. I've et in that house for nine years, but
'tain't likely I'll ever eat there agin."

The major found visitors awaiting him in the house,
Senator Mallard and Mrs. Baldwin, a sister of the states-
man's deceased wife. Mallard's whole aspect was one of
strength, both physical and mental. He was heavily built,
though not corpulent. His face was smooth-shaven.
His mouth was peculiarly expressive, indicating accord-
ing to his mood, pleasure, approbation, sarcasm, disdain
or wrath. His eyes were large and dark, and over them
rose a brow which was broad and steep. While he was
yet a young man, he had been prominent in state politics.
Very soon after he had entered the United States Senate,
he was ranked as a power in debate ; and in a few years
he was a recognized party leader. The idol of his friends,
he was hated by many of his opponents whose opinions
had been roughly handled by his aggressive speeches.

The greeting between the old men was cordial. They
had many questions to ask, answers to return and experi-
ences to relate. Since their last meeting one had increased
in wealth and influence, one had virtually lost his property,
each had been bereft of a wife, and each had grown gray,
though he had retained his bodily vigor. Mrs. Grippin
had to repeat her summons to dinner several times before
it was responded to by the major and his guest. Ratke
quite forgot everything except his friend and the scenes
through which they had mutually passed. He talked with




302 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O" DA Y.

such abstraction, as he waited on the visitors, that he was
unfitted for his duty. He placed potatoes on the plate
intended for Mrs. Baldwin, one at about every four words.
He had the dish well rounded when he was stopped by
Mrs. Grippin, and the second interference of his sister
alone saved the vegetables from being deluged with a pro-
fuse quantity of gravy. After dinner he and Mallard
went back of the house, where they seated themselves on
the wood-pile and talked for half the afternoon.

"Weil, George," said the major, "I suppose you are
confident of being re-elected in January."

"I am confident that I shall not again be re-elected," re-
plied Mallard. "For nearly forty years, with scarcely an
intermission I have been a public servant. Now I have a
right to demand that my condition shall be changed from
serfdom to independence."

"There are many who aspire to be tied with the bonds
of national servitude," said the major. "The official has
too much aulhority properly to be called a slave. He
dictates to those whom you term his masters."

"Neither all nor the greater part of political power,"
returned Mallard, "is wielded by officials acting in an
official capacity. Behind the officer is the will of the
public, and behind that is the moulding influence of the
Press and of those thinkers who study and expound
matters of government. When the honest legislator
finds that his conscience and popular sentiment are an-
tagonistic, it is his duty to yield to the former ; but be who
habitually disregards the wishes of his constituents will
soon destroy his pohtical career."

"The responsibility to constituents," said Ratke, "is
our great safeguard against usurpation. Were it not for
that, the Republican party would be wholly unscrupulous
in its disregard of precedent. The organization of which
you are a leader has repeatedly violated the constitution
and is advocating principles which, if carried out, will
eventually lead to monarchy."

This provoked a spirited reply from Mallard, which in
turn elicited a long answer from Ratke.

"James," called Afrs- Grippin, "I'll have tohave some
wood now."



THE CHK'ONICLES OF BREAK o'Day. 203

"All right, Maria," said the major. "There is no
warrant in the constitution for such dictatorial laws as
have been enacted. Quote, if you can, a single passage
which justifies them."

"Very well," answered Mallard, ' Congress shall have
power to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into execution the foregoing powers, and all
other powers vested by this constittation in the govern-
ment of the United States, or in any department or officer
thereof.' The specification in an instrument like the con-
stitution of every power of a legislative body is quite im-
practicable, on account of the limited space in the instru-
ment and the inability of its framers to tell with any cer-
tainty what exigencies may arise. This provision, had it
not been inserted, would have to be assumed, for no
government could long prosper without the ability to
enact special laws."

"James," said Mrs. Grippin, who was kept by the
presence of her visitors from an outburst of passion, "I'lii
waiting for that wood."

"You shall have it," answered Ratke, methodically
picking up two sticks and advancing to the kitchen, ' To
make all laws which shall be necessary and proper.' The
Republican party ignores that word proper. It interprets
the clause thus I ' To make such laws as best serve our
partisan purposes,' An undue concentration of national
authority," he continued, elevating his voice as he entered
the kitchen, "is incompatible with good government.
There should be a diffusion of power."

"Oh, dear ! What aman I "exclaimed Mrs. Grippin.
"Two sticks of wood to do a baking. Now you go right
back and get me some wood."

"I can carry the larger load," said Mallard, laughing, as
Ratke descended the back steps. "In our younger days
we tried feats of strength, but I am not used to them
now."

Each man took in a huge armful of wood, and Mrs.
Grippin was satisfied both with the quality and quantity
of the supply. The housekeeper took pains to find several
tasks for her brother, that the discussion might be, broken
off and he might not be worsted by Mallard, for, though



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK LT DAY.



2o6 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK o'Day.

gentlemen in a hotel. You know before the war I was
not in favor of immediate abolition, I was advocatmgthe
principles of the Republican party, when a young aboli-
tionist commenced to talk in the most fanatical manner. I
answered him, and lie returned a torrent of abuse. Say-
ing that I had no wish to discuss a question with one who
substituted invective for argument, I left him, A few
days after this occurrence I opened the door of my house
and found in the parlor the young man who had treated me
so rudely in the hotel. I bade him go and never enter my
dwelling again. I asked Eliza if this impudent German
was her suitor. She said he was. I told her to hold no
communication with him, that if she did, she could no
longer stay under the protection of my roof, A week
after that they eloped. I made no attempt to follow them,
but Eliza wrote me that they had gone to Detroit, and the
newspapers, of course, tracked them up and put in every
mouth the story of my new disgrace. I would have
welcomed them back had it not been for my positive dec-
laration that I would not do so, I heard nothing more of
them until my sister-in-law found an item in a paper
which stated that they had been killed two months pre-
viously in a railroad accident at Chicago. An enterpris-
ing reporter had had his attention riveted by the names of
the victims, as they appeared in an old paper and had dis-
covered that they were the same which had been borne
by my son-in-law and daughter. The surmise of the re-
porter was correct. I took up the bodies, which are now
in the Lansing cemetery. Never measure happiness by
fame or apparent success."

The next morning the major to no avail urged his
guests to prolong their visit. He did, however, extract a
promise that Mallard would make a more extended stay
the succeeding summer. As the senator and Mrs, Bald-
win were at the gate taking leave of the Ratkes, Panicky
came trudging up with his satchels.

"Good morning. Senator," was the peddler's familiar
salutation. "How do you come on ? "

"Very well," answered Mallard. "How is your health,
Mr. Dabney .' "

"Extra," said panicky. "I am exposed enough to kill



3oS THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK o'Day.

travelers. One little girl, who used her apron as a re-
ceptacle of sand, pulled the garment over her face and
suddenly rising, jerked it down, throwing a cloud of dust
almost against the fractious team. The horses jumped
forward, determined to flee from the unwonted spectacle.
They were in a fair way to be quieted when the whole
troop of Takura's dogs, large and small, came bounding
toward them with yelps and barks. They still would have
been manageable by Mallard's strong arm had not ac-
cident aided them in their insubordination. The left-line
snapped in twain, the unbalanced right pulled them to one
side, a front wheel struck a large stone, and the buggy
was overturned.

Panicky was whirled over in a summersault, his satchels,
bumping and jingling, rolled down an incline, where one
of them flew open ; his knee struck a small stump W'hich
was inconveniently near. He groaned dismally for a mo-
ment; then, raising himself, began to wail : "Oh, dear !
Oh, gosh! Oh, Jerusha I Oh, I'm dying ! I'm dying !
I'm dying ! "

Mrs, Baldwin was unhurt. She turned at once to the
assistance of her brother-in-law, whose form was stretched
at full length, motionless and apparently lifeless. She
lifted his head, she rubbed his hands, she called his name.
His closed eyes did not open, he gave no sign of realizing
her attentions. The Ratke family and Brown ran as soon
as possible to the scene of the accident, Nora in advance
of them all. They carried the senseless statesman back
to the house which he had thought he might not again

Bitterly did Ratke regret his expressed wish that, with
or against his will. Mallard would soon return. The stal-
wart frame, the hands he had pressed in farewell, the
features, the changes of which he had watched in con-
troversy and shared in the revival of memories had, indeed,
come back ; but tied in the bonds of inertness, they could
not return his words or feelings. He found, however, that
his friend was not dead. In the course of an hour he had
the satisfaction of seeing him sit up and of hearing him
announce that he felt better,
Daggett ivas m tti^ tamaracks by the road cutting poles



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK ff DAY.



309



when his attention was drawn by the sound of rapidly ap-
proaching hoofs. Dropping his ax, he rushed to the, high-
way just in time to catch the runaway team. With some
trouble he allayed their excitement and drove them back
toward Ratke's. The overturned buggy and the groan-
ing peddler were sufficient to explain the catastrophe.

"Helloa! What's up?" he exclaimed, as he neared
Panicky, who was seated on the ground, holding his knee
and rocking back and forth.

"Oh, I'm about dead !" moaned Panicky. "I'm fixed !
My leg's broke ! I know it is ! Oh, that's awful ! You
don't know how I suffer ! Oh, I'm laid up for life ! Oh,
I won't do another tap of work for six months I "

"I am agentfor the Great American Panacea," said Dag-
gett, advancing with a broken bottle, which had been left
with the fractured part upward, so that it still retained a por-
tion of its contents. "This medicine iscompounded of pine,
hemlock, tamarack, cedar and spruce, besides sovereign
roots and herbs known to tlie inedica! fraternity. It cures
cuts, bruises, sprains, wounds, incisions and all injuries to
the flesh. It is also a sovereign remedy for asthma,
bronchitis, tonsilitis, laryngitis and all throat diseases,
besides being an excellent tonic for consumption, dys-
pepsia, liver-complaint, rheumatism, malaria, fever and

"If your knee was like mine, you wouldn't make fun
of it," returned Panicky. "Oh, the whole top of my
ktfee's smashed ! Oh, I won't do another tap of work for
two months !" '

"Oh, yes, you will," assured Daggett, "I'll have you
on your feet in no time, I know a fellow over in Ing-
ham, a log rolled over his leg, smashed the whole busi-
ness fine, bones, skin, flesh and all. The doctor, he come
to amputate it, but I got him to try a bottle of the pana-
cea. Well, the next week was the Fourth of July, and he
took the first prize for running at Lansing, and just a "
tie while afterward he beat the best mile record by thi
seconds. Have a bottle, Mister. It isn't panicky. Pai
cea, sir, panacea. Panicky is where they get in a battle,

"I guess I will rub some of the panacea on my knee,



IIO TUB CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' ???>AV.

said the peddier, taking the broken bottle with a grin.
"That feels a good deal better," he acknowledged, as he
arose after applying his medicine. "It beats all how
quickly it helps it," he said, limping to his satchels and
beginning to gather up the uninjured portion of his wares.
"You'll know just what to do for lameness," he concluded,
when with the strap over his shoulder connecting the two
burdens, he was limping around the corner.

Before the arrival of doctor rorus, for whom the major
had sent. Mallard declared that he was able to recom-
mence his journey. Ratke protested, but to no avail.
He did, however, induce the senator to take the cars at
Barton Junction and allow Daggett, whom he considered a
fair horseman, to drive the team to Lansing.



2 1 2 THE CHRONICLES OF BSE A K O' DA Y.

when it cleared, half the village had been consumed.
Again the subscription was passed around, but this time
it met with poorer success. A fortunate merchant who
had escaped without loss visited Ratke as a solicitor for
his fellow-townsmen. The major had just threshed a
part of his wheat and had in his pocket forty dollars which
he was to pay to the Enterprise Machine Company of
Chicago, The note was due, and his impatient creditors
had threatened him. "They can wait," he said. "Our
neighbors cannot waiL Take it, Marsh, I wish I had

Montcalm had announced his intention to quit farm
labor. It was with reluctance that his employer saw him
take the train at Barton Junction,

July twenty-third was long a day of anticipation to
Ratke, On that day he must deed away in Sharptown the
Barton hundred and sixty in order to satisfy Durgenson,
who, he feared, would drive him from his old farm. On
that day he was to meet in the same town a man who with
a view to purchasing would examine the New Jerusalem.
As was related in the preceding chapter, an account of
the invention had been published in the Indianapolis
Standard," and shortly after a letter had come to the major
from Madgeburg, Indiana, stating that a representative of
the wagon-works in that city would be in Sharptown the
twenty-third, and that, if Major Ratke would meet him at
the Cass House, they might negotiate a sale. The letter
was signed J. Boutwell, president. On the note-head was
printed J, Boutwell, President ; T; C. Parker, Treasurer.

"Fortune is with me, Maria," said the philosopher.
"The Madgeburg wagon works are among the -largest in
the country. If they believe the New Jerusalem is
a success, fifty thousand dollars is no price for it. Its
value once proven, it will take everything by storm. I
would rather have a percentage on the sales than to sell
for cash."

"Well, that man is a fool," remarked Mrs. Grippin.
"That's all I've got W ^^J" about him. He isn't fit to be
president of any wag"" company."
The major order 3 Daggett to harness Taylor and Bill



THE CHRONICLES Oh' BREAK 0' DAY. 213

to the New Jerusalem' With approbation he looked over
its low boxes and its high posts and wheels. He had
taken it from the shop still unpainted because it would
not hav^ time to dry before it went lo Sharptown for
examination.

Seated in the bottom of the front box, he drove out of
his yard with his head not five feel from the ground.
Behind him was the second box, which was empty. On
either side of each six-foot wheel and towering still afoot
higher, was a post connected by a board with its mate at
the top. The wheels had been favored with limited pro-
visions for greasing;and one of them emitted at every
revolution three squeaks, the first two short and spirited,
the last dolorous and prolonged.

The maior's neifflibors did not trratifv him bv manifest-



2 14 ^^^ CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA V.

the boys, unheeding the bell, went with him for a mile.
The driver on the power of a threshing-machine near the
road yelled vociferously at his horses until they stopped.
The gang of hands left their places to examine the new
wonder. The major obtained an oil can from the driver
and endeavored to grease the wheels of his wagon, but
the closely fitting posts would not allow him properly to
apply the oil.

No interest which he had aroused was worthy of com-
parison with that which he awakened in Sharptown. The
central portion of the town, which contained two thousand
inhabitants, was situated on the crest of a gradual slope.
When Ratke entered the outskirts, several pedestrians
were walking along the one side of the street which had a
sidewalk. This number received additions from the
houses and from the cross-streets. Farther on there was
a walk on either side, and the throng divided and in-
creased. Numbers from upper town observing the slow-
moving procession, met and turning, joined the tide
which, made up of footmen, horses and vehicles, filled
the sidewalks and the street and confined travel to one
direction,

A philosophic Scipio, the major leaned back in his car
and viewed the homage which the gaping multitude un-
wittingly tendered him. He remembered that Scipio had
fallen from appreciation, and he preferred, therefore, to
compare himself to Ceesar, Before him was a common
wagon loaded with wheat. Anciently the conquered foe ,
walked before the conqueror, "Likewise," thought Ratke,
"the common wagon goes before the New Jerusalem,
which is destined soon to sweep it completely out of use."

The greatest incongruity in his position was that he
was very low for a conquering hero. The horses obscured
his vision, and he was obliged to twist his head to one
side in order to see his wagon's vanquished rival jolting
along through the dust, unconscious of its doom.

When the proud inventor stopped on Main Street, the
most prominent merchants came out to meet him. There,
surrounded by the wondering population, he explained
the principles of bis invention, its lightness of draught,
its adaptation to the far*^ ^"???* ^??? '^^ *^'*i' ^^^y *???' *^^



2i6 THE CHRONICLES OF BKEAK 0' DA Y.

readyto buy it for his son who was soon to be married, but
knowing Ratke's circumstances, he would offer but thirty
dollars an acre, little more than half its value. Tiie
cashier of the Second National Bank handed out a num-
Ijer of bills, which Ratke put into a bag. The bag was
light, but the heart of the major was heavy.

The afternoon was well spent when Ratke returned to
the Cass House. The New Jerusalem, waxing old as an
object of wonder, was nearly deserted by the crowd.

As their acquaintance was prolonged, Mr. Boutwell be-
came more talkative, or rather more agreeable, for he had
been at first not unwilling to talk.

"How do you like philosophy ?" inquired the major.

"Very well," answered Mr. Boutwell. "I used to have
a special liking for it."

"What author is your favorite ?" asked Ratke.

"Oh, I like Comstock," said Mr. Boutwell. "I think
he's about as good as any of them."

"Comstock," said the major in disgust, "he is the
author of an elementary physics."

"There are different tastes about authorities," observed
Mr. Boutwell. "Some may not like Comstock. I think
he does pretty well."

"How do you like Hobbes ? "

"First-rate," ventured Mr. Boutwell, thinking that he
now heard the name of the major's favorite, "1 like him
very much,"

"I do not. His theories are the most selfish ever put
forth by a philosopher. What do you think of his work,
the Leviathan ? "

"If I remember rightly," said Boutwell, "it has a fine
description of the whale."

.The major concluded that Mr. Boutwell had given" his
entire energies to business. "I hope you are not a dis-
ciple of Hobbes," he remarked. "If you are, you will
beat me down as much as you can on the price of my
wagon. In that case, I can expect an offer from you of
not more than five hundred,"

"Oh, no," saidBoutw^"' ""???^ ''y*")' ???^*"^- What I
meant was that Jie cou''! ''"'''^ pretty well. Now, am I
right? Isn't iis wofj^ ^fl good style?"



THE CHRONICLES OF BR BAR O' DA Y.

"A good style of its class," answered Ratke.
attempts no excellence except in ratiocination."
"It's a (rood while since I've looked un th



31^ THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O* DAY.

off, and as for the chalk marks, they will not show when
they are covered with paint."

"I am afraid," said Mr. Boutwell, when they had started
on the angling road leading from Main Street to Break o*
Day, "that the wagon will bother about hauling poles."

"There is not the least trouble about that," assured the
inventor. *' You can take out all the end boards and put
the poles, the forward parts in the forward box, the rear
parts in the rear box. Of course, there is a small portion
of the weight which has no support underneath, but not
enough to cause a dangerous transverse strain. The in-
tensity of stress on the wagon, too, is inconsiderable. It
is, in terms of acceleration, force divided by area, M L
divided by T square, divided by L square, or M divided
by L T square. L and T, you observe, in this case are
very large in proportion to M. And the poles can be so
conveniently loaded. You have to raise them no higher
than you do when you are carrying them. How many
ruptures and strains would be saved if men could load
wheat into this wagon. After we get home, we will haul
poles until you are satisfied."

"The high posts are one objection," said Mr. Boutwell.
"They look bad, and 1 can't think of anything theyVe
good for."

"I can think of several uses which they have," said
Ratke. "They make good standards for a hay-rack.
This morning Dr. Rorus observed that this would be the
best wagon in the world for public occasions, such as the
Fourth of July. Flags and banners could be attached to
the posts, and they could be seen for a great distance."

"How about its draught ?" asked Mr. Boutwell.

"That is its strong point," said Ratke. ** The propel-
ling force has a good chance to act. Its point of appli-
cation is low. . And it lessens the pressure on the wheels.
The six-foot wheel and the tw^inch pivot, too, form
another great advantage, as they materially lessen the
friction. Every time a wheel revolves, one fourth the
weight of the load scrapes over the circumference of its
axle or pivot. In the New Jerusalem the wheel is six feet
in diameter, and the pivot two inches. In the common
wagon the wheel is, say five feet, and the axle three inches.



THE CirRONJCLRS OF BREAK o'Day. 219

In the New Jerusalem the load is propelled seventy-
two inches while the movement at the point of friction is
two inches. In the common wagon the load is propelled
sixty-inches, while the movement at the point of friction is
three inches. In the New Jerusalem the ratio of frit:tional
movement to the distance of transportation is thirty-six.
In the common wagon it is twenty."

"Wouldn't it be a good plan to have a spindle turn on
rollers ?" asked Mr, Boutwell.

"I have thought of that," said the major. "That
changes the loss of power at the spindle or pivot from
sliding to rolling friction. But these small wheels must
turn on spindles or pivots and engender the sliding fric-
tion they are calculated to prevent. Thus we exchange
the sliding frictipn for both sliding and rolling friction,"

"What will you take for that nigh horse.'" asked Mr.
lioutwell,

"Four thousand dollars," replied the major.

"He must be a good one," commented Mr, Boutwell.

"Fair," said Ratke, in a way which intimated that he
was stating Taylor's merits with moderation.

"I have been talking some of getting me a horse," said
Mr. Boutwell, "but that is more than I want to invest
Can't you start him up? I'd hke to see him move ofiE a
little faster."

"Charge," said the major in a quiet tone.

The wagon started with such suddenness that the sleek
manufacturer was jerked violently backward. His beaver
fell and was run over by the hind wheel. The president
of the wagon works clutched the side of the box and re-
monstrated with Ratke on his fast driving. "Oh, I
wouldn't drive too fast. Major ! It's a warm night."

"My team is good for it," responded Ratke.

"It ain't safe," said Mr. Boutwell, after a heavy jolt had
thrown him to the opposite side of the box. "Something
might break. Hold on. Major, I've lost my hat I "

"Halt," commanded the major. Instantly the team
topped, and Mr. Boutwell was pitched headlong against
the dashboard.

"That's useless fast driving," he said. "It's unreason-
able- in hot weather." His face was sad as he returned



_\



210 THE CHRONICLES OF BUEAK O' DA Y.

with his once magnificent hat which, with its crown crushed

in, was quite ruined.

The major, stopping at Birch & Bigney's store, pur-
chased a hat for Mr. Boutwell, not, indeed, one so im-
pressive as the demoHshed beaver had been, but the best
which Break o'Day afforded. He was not sorry for the
misfortune of his companion, wlio, intent on the transac-
tion of their business, had taken no pains to make himself
agreeable. He wished that the company had sent another
man, whose criticism was less free.

"I don't like that squeaking," said Mr. Boutwell. "It
looks to me as if there wasn't much of a chance to
grease the wheels. Your machinist must be a poor work-

"I can soon fix the wheels so we can grease them,"

said the major. "Now, as to the pivot, you think that it is
very rough. You notice that the pitch of the squeak is
high, on the key of C, I think. There must be, then, one
thousand and fifty-six vibrations per second. "The motion
at the pivot, as 1 said, is slight. In order to have one
thousand and fifty-six vibrations of sound result from a
slight motion the protuberances must be very small.
What do you think you can pay me for my wagon ? "

"I can't say now," answered Mr. Boutwtll. "I don't
know as we can buy it at all. If we take it, we'll give you
a good price. But before we negotiate, we would want
you to agree not to go to any other company till you've
got through with us. If I think it worth while, I'll have
you drive out to Madgeburg."

"You can ride with me," said Ratke.

"No," said Mr. Boutwell, "you go too fast and stop
too quick for me. I must get back to attend to business.
i'll take the cars."

"When you understand one principle you will be all
right to ride with me," said Ratke. 'Action is equal to
reaction, and in a contrary direction.' What you must
guard against is reaction. It was reaction which pitched
you against the dashboard. This law has application else-
where than in the physical world. A man is persecuted
by sociefy. In time ???' '* discovered that he has Jieen a
martyr, and be is 7g???^ed as much as he has been abused.



222



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.



in a hurry, too. We ain't talking wagon now. Come
now, no Hobbes nor transverse strain."

"Charge!" shouted the major. At that magic word
the wheels of the New Jerusalem raised clear from the
ground, and the three squeaks blended in one, which was
shrill, continuous and ear-splitting. Mr. Boutwell was
pitched against the rear end-board, but he regained his
equilibrium and again struck Ratke. He was in a fair
way to administer a terrible punishment to the philosopher
when a great jolt threw him off his balance ; and before
he recovered himself, the old man, whose strength he had
under-estimated, rolled him and began to rain blows upon
his face. Ratke's fighting blood was up, and he plied
his fists with such vigor that Mr. Boutwell soon cried,
"Hold up ! Hold up ! Fll quit. IVe got enough."

"I am sorry," said the major, "that I have been obliged
to strike a man who was down. I trust you will pardon
me. And now you have seen a demonstration of the
tlieorem which I stated. * Action is equal to reaction and
in a contrary direction.' Halt."

The team stopped at the edge of the tamaracks. The
New Jerusalem was now a veritable chariot, for it had
been uncoupled by the jolt which had demoralized Bout-
well, and the hind wheels were far back on the causeway.
A thick cloud of dust hovered over the road along which
they had sped.

"I will send one of my men down after it to-morrow,"
said Ratke. "We will go on without it now. . You can
get up, Mr. Boutwell. Allow me to search your pockets."

Ratke, after taking two revolvers from the pockets of
his new acquaintance, drove on in silence. At the large
gate by the house he stopped and called, "Mark, Mark,
come and take care of the team."






mm I J f -
