CHAPTER XXII.
ACTION IS EQUAL TO REACTION

The dry weather continued. In the memory of the
oldest inhabitant there had not been so long an interval
without rain. Cattle and sheep sought the protection of
shade. Stunted and withered, the cor leaves rolled
upward to hold the scanty supply of dew which fell, but it
was sucked away by the sun; and their need of drink
was still unfurnished. In the road timothy and June
grass were dried and lopped over. Other grass, withered
before maturity, was laid flat and thickly powdered with
sand, yellow along its blades, showing green near its
roots, even through its veil of dirt. Clouds of dust were
almost continually in motion, coming from the wheels of
passing vehicles and from drags and cultivators at work
on the moistureless summer fallows. The smell of burning
marshes was in the air. Fire, started accidentally or
thoughtlessly, was running here and there through the
country, uniting with the drought to render unvailing their
farmer's toil.

The effect of the fire and dust was to level distinctions
of color in nature. Vegetation was draped in dirt; so
that grass and tree, plowed field and meadow, all
approached the same faded hue. The atmosphere seemed
to share the general taint, as if the eye were constantly
looking through a dust-smeared glass. Over and among
the woods hung a haze of smoke, a connecting shade
between cerulean and green, which made less marked their
division where the tree-tops cut an irregular border in the
sky.

Northern Michigan had been blazing. Thousands of
families were homeless. For these sufferers subscriptions
had been raised to which the people had liberally
contributed. Then a great smoke arose from Oakville; and


[nh 212]


2 1 2 THE CHRONICLES OF BSE A K O' DA Y.

when it cleared, half the village had been consumed.
Again the subscription was passed around, but this time
it met with poorer success. A fortunate merchant who
had escaped without loss visited Ratke as a solicitor for
his fellow-townsmen. The major had just threshed a
part of his wheat and had in his pocket forty dollars which
he was to pay to the Enterprise Machine Company of
Chicago, The note was due, and his impatient creditors
had threatened him. "They can wait," he said. "Our
neighbors cannot waiL Take it, Marsh, I wish I had

Montcalm had announced his intention to quit farm
labor. It was with reluctance that his employer saw him
take the train at Barton Junction,

July twenty-third was long a day of anticipation to
Ratke, On that day he must deed away in Sharptown the
Barton hundred and sixty in order to satisfy Durgenson,
who, he feared, would drive him from his old farm. On
that day he was to meet in the same town a man who with
a view to purchasing would examine the New Jerusalem.
As was related in the preceding chapter, an account of
the invention had been published in the Indianapolis
Standard," and shortly after a letter had come to the major
from Madgeburg, Indiana, stating that a representative of
the wagon-works in that city would be in Sharptown the
twenty-third, and that, if Major Ratke would meet him at
the Cass House, they might negotiate a sale. The letter
was signed J. Boutwell, president. On the note-head was
printed J, Boutwell, President ; T; C. Parker, Treasurer.

"Fortune is with me, Maria," said the philosopher.
"The Madgeburg wagon works are among the -largest in
the country. If they believe the New Jerusalem is
a success, fifty thousand dollars is no price for it. Its
value once proven, it will take everything by storm. I
would rather have a percentage on the sales than to sell
for cash."

"Well, that man is a fool," remarked Mrs. Grippin.
"That's all I've got W ^^J" about him. He isn't fit to be
president of any wag"" company."
The major order 3 Daggett to harness Taylor and Bill



THE CHRONICLES Oh' BREAK 0' DAY. 213

to the New Jerusalem' With approbation he looked over
its low boxes and its high posts and wheels. He had
taken it from the shop still unpainted because it would
not hav^ time to dry before it went lo Sharptown for
examination.

Seated in the bottom of the front box, he drove out of
his yard with his head not five feel from the ground.
Behind him was the second box, which was empty. On
either side of each six-foot wheel and towering still afoot
higher, was a post connected by a board with its mate at
the top. The wheels had been favored with limited pro-
visions for greasing;and one of them emitted at every
revolution three squeaks, the first two short and spirited,
the last dolorous and prolonged.

The maior's neifflibors did not trratifv him bv manifest-



2 14 ^^^ CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA V.

the boys, unheeding the bell, went with him for a mile.
The driver on the power of a threshing-machine near the
road yelled vociferously at his horses until they stopped.
The gang of hands left their places to examine the new
wonder. The major obtained an oil can from the driver
and endeavored to grease the wheels of his wagon, but
the closely fitting posts would not allow him properly to
apply the oil.

No interest which he had aroused was worthy of com-
parison with that which he awakened in Sharptown. The
central portion of the town, which contained two thousand
inhabitants, was situated on the crest of a gradual slope.
When Ratke entered the outskirts, several pedestrians
were walking along the one side of the street which had a
sidewalk. This number received additions from the
houses and from the cross-streets. Farther on there was
a walk on either side, and the throng divided and in-
creased. Numbers from upper town observing the slow-
moving procession, met and turning, joined the tide
which, made up of footmen, horses and vehicles, filled
the sidewalks and the street and confined travel to one
direction,

A philosophic Scipio, the major leaned back in his car
and viewed the homage which the gaping multitude un-
wittingly tendered him. He remembered that Scipio had
fallen from appreciation, and he preferred, therefore, to
compare himself to Ceesar, Before him was a common
wagon loaded with wheat. Anciently the conquered foe ,
walked before the conqueror, "Likewise," thought Ratke,
"the common wagon goes before the New Jerusalem,
which is destined soon to sweep it completely out of use."

The greatest incongruity in his position was that he
was very low for a conquering hero. The horses obscured
his vision, and he was obliged to twist his head to one
side in order to see his wagon's vanquished rival jolting
along through the dust, unconscious of its doom.

When the proud inventor stopped on Main Street, the
most prominent merchants came out to meet him. There,
surrounded by the wondering population, he explained
the principles of bis invention, its lightness of draught,
its adaptation to the far*^ ^"???* ^??? '^^ *^'*i' ^^^y *???' *^^



2i6 THE CHRONICLES OF BKEAK 0' DA Y.

readyto buy it for his son who was soon to be married, but
knowing Ratke's circumstances, he would offer but thirty
dollars an acre, little more than half its value. Tiie
cashier of the Second National Bank handed out a num-
Ijer of bills, which Ratke put into a bag. The bag was
light, but the heart of the major was heavy.

The afternoon was well spent when Ratke returned to
the Cass House. The New Jerusalem, waxing old as an
object of wonder, was nearly deserted by the crowd.

As their acquaintance was prolonged, Mr. Boutwell be-
came more talkative, or rather more agreeable, for he had
been at first not unwilling to talk.

"How do you like philosophy ?" inquired the major.

"Very well," answered Mr. Boutwell. "I used to have
a special liking for it."

"What author is your favorite ?" asked Ratke.

"Oh, I like Comstock," said Mr. Boutwell. "I think
he's about as good as any of them."

"Comstock," said the major in disgust, "he is the
author of an elementary physics."

"There are different tastes about authorities," observed
Mr. Boutwell. "Some may not like Comstock. I think
he does pretty well."

"How do you like Hobbes ? "

"First-rate," ventured Mr. Boutwell, thinking that he
now heard the name of the major's favorite, "1 like him
very much,"

"I do not. His theories are the most selfish ever put
forth by a philosopher. What do you think of his work,
the Leviathan ? "

"If I remember rightly," said Boutwell, "it has a fine
description of the whale."

.The major concluded that Mr. Boutwell had given" his
entire energies to business. "I hope you are not a dis-
ciple of Hobbes," he remarked. "If you are, you will
beat me down as much as you can on the price of my
wagon. In that case, I can expect an offer from you of
not more than five hundred,"

"Oh, no," saidBoutw^"' ""???^ ''y*")' ???^*"^- What I
meant was that Jie cou''! ''"'''^ pretty well. Now, am I
right? Isn't iis wofj^ ^fl good style?"



THE CHRONICLES OF BR BAR O' DA Y.

"A good style of its class," answered Ratke.
attempts no excellence except in ratiocination."
"It's a (rood while since I've looked un th



31^ THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O* DAY.

off, and as for the chalk marks, they will not show when
they are covered with paint."

"I am afraid," said Mr. Boutwell, when they had started
on the angling road leading from Main Street to Break o*
Day, "that the wagon will bother about hauling poles."

"There is not the least trouble about that," assured the
inventor. *' You can take out all the end boards and put
the poles, the forward parts in the forward box, the rear
parts in the rear box. Of course, there is a small portion
of the weight which has no support underneath, but not
enough to cause a dangerous transverse strain. The in-
tensity of stress on the wagon, too, is inconsiderable. It
is, in terms of acceleration, force divided by area, M L
divided by T square, divided by L square, or M divided
by L T square. L and T, you observe, in this case are
very large in proportion to M. And the poles can be so
conveniently loaded. You have to raise them no higher
than you do when you are carrying them. How many
ruptures and strains would be saved if men could load
wheat into this wagon. After we get home, we will haul
poles until you are satisfied."

"The high posts are one objection," said Mr. Boutwell.
"They look bad, and 1 can't think of anything theyVe
good for."

"I can think of several uses which they have," said
Ratke. "They make good standards for a hay-rack.
This morning Dr. Rorus observed that this would be the
best wagon in the world for public occasions, such as the
Fourth of July. Flags and banners could be attached to
the posts, and they could be seen for a great distance."

"How about its draught ?" asked Mr. Boutwell.

"That is its strong point," said Ratke. ** The propel-
ling force has a good chance to act. Its point of appli-
cation is low. . And it lessens the pressure on the wheels.
The six-foot wheel and the tw^inch pivot, too, form
another great advantage, as they materially lessen the
friction. Every time a wheel revolves, one fourth the
weight of the load scrapes over the circumference of its
axle or pivot. In the New Jerusalem the wheel is six feet
in diameter, and the pivot two inches. In the common
wagon the wheel is, say five feet, and the axle three inches.



THE CirRONJCLRS OF BREAK o'Day. 219

In the New Jerusalem the load is propelled seventy-
two inches while the movement at the point of friction is
two inches. In the common wagon the load is propelled
sixty-inches, while the movement at the point of friction is
three inches. In the New Jerusalem the ratio of frit:tional
movement to the distance of transportation is thirty-six.
In the common wagon it is twenty."

"Wouldn't it be a good plan to have a spindle turn on
rollers ?" asked Mr, Boutwell.

"I have thought of that," said the major. "That
changes the loss of power at the spindle or pivot from
sliding to rolling friction. But these small wheels must
turn on spindles or pivots and engender the sliding fric-
tion they are calculated to prevent. Thus we exchange
the sliding frictipn for both sliding and rolling friction,"

"What will you take for that nigh horse.'" asked Mr.
lioutwell,

"Four thousand dollars," replied the major.

"He must be a good one," commented Mr, Boutwell.

"Fair," said Ratke, in a way which intimated that he
was stating Taylor's merits with moderation.

"I have been talking some of getting me a horse," said
Mr. Boutwell, "but that is more than I want to invest
Can't you start him up? I'd hke to see him move ofiE a
little faster."

"Charge," said the major in a quiet tone.

The wagon started with such suddenness that the sleek
manufacturer was jerked violently backward. His beaver
fell and was run over by the hind wheel. The president
of the wagon works clutched the side of the box and re-
monstrated with Ratke on his fast driving. "Oh, I
wouldn't drive too fast. Major! It's a warm night."

"My team is good for it," responded Ratke.

"It ain't safe," said Mr. Boutwell, after a heavy jolt had
thrown him to the opposite side of the box. "Something
might break. Hold on. Major, I've lost my hat I "

"Halt," commanded the major. Instantly the team
topped, and Mr. Boutwell was pitched headlong against
the dashboard.

"That's useless fast driving," he said. "It's unreason-
able- in hot weather." His face was sad as he returned



_\



210 THE CHRONICLES OF BUEAK O' DA Y.

with his once magnificent hat which, with its crown crushed

in, was quite ruined.

The major, stopping at Birch & Bigney's store, pur-
chased a hat for Mr. Boutwell, not, indeed, one so im-
pressive as the demoHshed beaver had been, but the best
which Break o'Day afforded. He was not sorry for the
misfortune of his companion, wlio, intent on the transac-
tion of their business, had taken no pains to make himself
agreeable. He wished that the company had sent another
man, whose criticism was less free.

"I don't like that squeaking," said Mr. Boutwell. "It
looks to me as if there wasn't much of a chance to
grease the wheels. Your machinist must be a poor work-

"I can soon fix the wheels so we can grease them,"

said the major. "Now, as to the pivot, you think that it is
very rough. You notice that the pitch of the squeak is
high, on the key of C, I think. There must be, then, one
thousand and fifty-six vibrations per second. "The motion
at the pivot, as 1 said, is slight. In order to have one
thousand and fifty-six vibrations of sound result from a
slight motion the protuberances must be very small.
What do you think you can pay me for my wagon ? "

"I can't say now," answered Mr. Boutwtll. "I don't
know as we can buy it at all. If we take it, we'll give you
a good price. But before we negotiate, we would want
you to agree not to go to any other company till you've
got through with us. If I think it worth while, I'll have
you drive out to Madgeburg."

"You can ride with me," said Ratke.

"No," said Mr. Boutwell, "you go too fast and stop
too quick for me. I must get back to attend to business.
i'll take the cars."

"When you understand one principle you will be all
right to ride with me," said Ratke. 'Action is equal to
reaction, and in a contrary direction.' What you must
guard against is reaction. It was reaction which pitched
you against the dashboard. This law has application else-
where than in the physical world. A man is persecuted
by sociefy. In time ???' '* discovered that he has Jieen a
martyr, and be is 7g???^ed as much as he has been abused.



222



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.



in a hurry, too. We ain't talking wagon now. Come
now, no Hobbes nor transverse strain."

"Charge!" shouted the major. At that magic word
the wheels of the New Jerusalem raised clear from the
ground, and the three squeaks blended in one, which was
shrill, continuous and ear-splitting. Mr. Boutwell was
pitched against the rear end-board, but he regained his
equilibrium and again struck Ratke. He was in a fair
way to administer a terrible punishment to the philosopher
when a great jolt threw him off his balance ; and before
he recovered himself, the old man, whose strength he had
under-estimated, rolled him and began to rain blows upon
his face. Ratke's fighting blood was up, and he plied
his fists with such vigor that Mr. Boutwell soon cried,
"Hold up! Hold up! Fll quit. IVe got enough."

"I am sorry," said the major, "that I have been obliged
to strike a man who was down. I trust you will pardon
me. And now you have seen a demonstration of the
tlieorem which I stated. * Action is equal to reaction and
in a contrary direction.' Halt."

The team stopped at the edge of the tamaracks. The
New Jerusalem was now a veritable chariot, for it had
been uncoupled by the jolt which had demoralized Bout-
well, and the hind wheels were far back on the causeway.
A thick cloud of dust hovered over the road along which
they had sped.

"I will send one of my men down after it to-morrow,"
said Ratke. "We will go on without it now. . You can
get up, Mr. Boutwell. Allow me to search your pockets."

Ratke, after taking two revolvers from the pockets of
his new acquaintance, drove on in silence. At the large
gate by the house he stopped and called, "Mark, Mark,
come and take care of the team."






mm I J f -
