CHAPTER XXIII.

ONE HOUROF BLISS.

By Mrs. Boyle's clock it lacked twenty-two minutes of
midnight. It was the hour for sleep and repose, yet it
was an hour of activity. The hornets were buzzing in
their hidden nests, the millers were flitting about the
lamp. The two human occupants of the house were ex-
cited. One had been brutally attacked; and the other had
come to her assistance too late, or, perhaps, providen-
tially late.

"You say he is not my son," said Mrs. Boyle. "You
talk as if you knew, John."

He noticed with pleasure that she called him John.
"So I do know," he replied. "A dull man ought to be
able to tell that. When I am convinced that the loftiest
virtue begets the grossest vice, I will believe that you are
his mother."

"No," she said, "he is not my son. None of the neigh-
bors know it, and he don't know it. I'm sure you won't
tell anything I don't want you to."

"No," said John earnestly, "I never will."

"Then, if you're not sleepy," said Mrs. Boyle, "I will
tell you the whole story. When Mr. Boyle was alive, we
stayed several years in Chicago. We lived just a little
ways from Alfred's folks. I guess I won't tell even you
his real name. His father and mother were bad char-
acters. They both drank and stole. They would quarrel
and sometimes fight. Once in a while he pounded her
terribly. Little Alfred would scream as loud as he could.
He wasn't big enough to talk much. Then, if Mr. Boyle
was at home, he would go over to see about it. The
last time he went Alfred's father and mother both told
him to go home and never come there again. They
could manage their own affairs. Finally he pounded her



224 ^-^-^ CHRONICLES OF BREAK o'Day,

SO that he was arrested and sent to jail. It wasn't long
after that she stole some valuable jewelry out of a store.
"I was in court when they sentenced her. She might
I have got off easier but she was sullen, just like Alfred,

1 and she prejudiced them against her. She was sent to.

the penitentiary for a year. It was hard to see that little
fellow hanging to her hand, and to think what a training he
would get. I told her if she would give him to me, I
would take him. She seemed to be glad to get him off
her hands, and she said she hadn't any objections."

Mrs. Boyle gave John an account of her and her protege'
since Mr. Boyle's death, of their removal to Michigan, of
Alf's growing depravity, which he manifested even in his
I early childhood.

I "He is naturally bad," said John. "You might as well

\ try to turn a bramble to a peach tree as to attempt to

make a respectable man of him."

"I know he has got into some awful trouble," said
'j Mrs. Boyle. "I don't expect him back very soon. But

if he comes, you must stay above, no matter how he
acts." >

"You want me to be less than a man," replied John.
"You think I would stay up there and let him strike you.
If he attempts any such thing again, I will come sooner
than I did before."

"Then he certainly will kill you," said Mrs. Boyle.
"You don't know him. He has a passion for killing
things. Whenever he can, he takes the life of a chip-
munk, or a toad, or a fly, or an)^hing, no matter what
it is."

John remembered the millers, the bat and the squirrel;
and he knew that Mrs. Boyle's estimate of the ruffian's
character was correct.

"Now, do as I tell you, John," she continued. "You
seem almost like my own boy. You won't get. mad if I
call you John, will you ? "

"No," said John, "I wish I were your son."

He tho\ig\it Jong of her words. Until then, motherless,

not quite iri^raW^^S't ^^ ^^^ yearned for that sympathy

yfhich, coming only from the maternal heart, cures wounds

of the spirit and i/^dy ^^^ makes suffering almost desir-




226 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

brittle lumps of sand he had passed a short time previous
to his accidental meeting with th??? Wallaces. The high
oaks on the opposite side hid the waters of Coon Lake
and the village of Break o'Day.

Beyond the high belt of wood was one for a sight of
whom he would have ventured much. That misgiving
which he had felt at their parting, that impulse which in
the face of resistance had urged him to bid a second adieu
were not vain follies, but the warnings of, and, had he
heeded them, the preparation for an occurrence the end of
which he could not foretell. He speculated as to the
probable location of Ratke's house. He believed that
with the aid of his mathematics he could determine it with
a fair degree of accuracy. After some deliberation he
fixed upon a depiession in the upper edge of the woods,
as the place which had been hollowed out by nature that
his gaze might more nearly approach the Gothic house
with its shroud of evergreens and its greater attraction
within. His hand impulsively went to his lips and threw
a greeting toward the imaginary gateway. To verify his
I mathematical observations he obtained Mrs. Boyle^s com-

pass. What was the reaction when he discovered that he
had mistaken north for northwest and that he had thrown
I his kiss in the direction of Julia Wallace ! Rectifying his

' mistake, he decided that the dry top of a lofty tamarack

which stood where the skirt of the hard-wood timber ended
was between him and Manie. His breast heaved, but it
soon harbored that discontent which had been engendered
by his early training. Chances for which some vainly
; long are given, to others who have for them not the

I slightest appreciation. The dry old tree-top cared not


I for youth and beauty. Stripped of its foliage to mitigate

; the force of the wind and groaning whenever an unusual

I gust strained its rheumatic seams, it might look down on

; Ratke's, might see a graceful form and composed, digni-

fied face emerging from the evergreens, yet it ignored its
' privileges, while they were yearned for by another.

! One night ]ohx\ announced to Mrs. Boyle his intention

j to take his departure from her house.

j "I hate to havQ y^u go," she said, "you step as if your

ankle was nearly pi, , t but you know it is weak yet. You



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK ff DA V. 227

are welcome to stay, and I'd like to have you. It will be



228 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

familiar territory he was apprised by a sound which he had
once detested, but which was now far from unwelcome,
the yelping of Takum's dogs. He crossed a second road
and was shortly in the major's field, for the leveling of
which the hands had worked so long in the spring.


He stood a minute by the front gate. The loud talking
of the men had ceased in the club-house. It was past
the hour when the major's family was in the habit of re-
tiring, yet a light was burning in the parlor. John stole
to a window and looked inside. Not a person was in
sight. This was inexplicable to him, as it was Ratke's
custom to put out the lights before going to bed. He was
astonished when, taking a closer view, he saw Archer
yawning over a thick octavo volume, the pages of which
he occasionally turned. His fellow hired man had not
been famed for his love of books, and he wondered that
he should suddenly become so devoted a student as to
read until midnight. He could account for his presence
there at that hour, only on the supposition that one of the
household was sick and that he was serving as watcher.
While he was endeavoring to solve the riddle, Mrs.
Grippin appeared, blew out the light, gave some injunc-
tions which he could not distinguish, and retired. Mak-
ing a reconnoissance of the house, John discovered that
lights were burning in two of the back bedrooms, which
were separated by a distance of a few feet. Curtains were
before the windows, and on one of them was impressed
the shadow of a human form. For some minutes he
watched it, undecided whether it were made by Nora or
by Manie. At last the figure quickly jerked its head, dis-
appeared for an instant and returned. It did not belong
to Manie, it was that of her impulsive cousin.

With a throbbing heart he went cautiously to another

window. Drawing a long breath, he raised his finger

hesitatingly. It trembled an instant in the air and fell

several times faintly on the pane. There was a rustling

of paper within, a sound as of some one closing a book

and itiowmg about \n a chair. He was tempted to draw

back from his adventure. Admitting that he had rightly

guessed the location ^f Manie's room, how was he assured

that she would ^e/^^^^e ^ communication at midnight, or



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK C DA Y, 229

that she might not be affrighted and raise an alarm. She
had quitted the chair. She was about to take some action,
either to respond to his signal, or to tell the household
that some one was prowling near the room. If he would
prevent her from raising an outcry, he must speak with-
out delay. He must see her. He must say the farewell
which he had once repressed. He placed his lips almost
to the glass and whispered, ** Manie. Manie. Miss
Ratke," he corrected, alarmed at his familiarity. The
curtains parted, and the face of Manie appeared, not af-
frighted, but lacking its usual serenity. She started as
she saw a man close enough to touch her had he broken
that barrier of glass.

"Do not be alarmed," said John. "It is I, John, John
Wrengell."

"Is it you ?" asked Manie. John thought that there
was something of joy in her manner. "We were afraid
you were dead," she continued. '* We had not heard
from you in so long."

"Can you not get on your bonnet and come out ?" said
John. "I am afraid we shall be overheard."

"Come to-morrow," said Manie, ** and we will all be
glad to see you."

"I cannot," responded John sadly. "I am afraid I
never can come again. I am going away to-morrow

morning, and I would like to talk with you a few min-
utes."

His hope of having his request granted was so slight
that he was surprised when she put on a straw hat and
began to raise the window. He assisted her to the ground,
and they stood together outside.

"Let us go to the orchard," he said.

It was there that she had accepted the first offer of his
company. He wished, but he doubted, that his words
would be as well received as they were on that Sabbath
morning when the blossoms were fluttering from the
agitated boughs. At the foot of a harvest tree Manie
stooped to pick up an apple. She was not hungry, and
she had no definite purpose in so doing; but John, suppos-
ing that she wished to satisfy her appetite, sprang up the
tree in search of its best products. Lik^ a red squirrel



230 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA V.

.he raced from limb to limb and soon descended, bringing
a pocketful of mellow apples, which he insisted that she
should take.

Now that he was in her presence, he was at a loss what
to do or what to say. He could not bear to go away
without taking her hand and bidding her an informal fare-
well which, if they were destined to meet no more, would
ever be a delightful memory. He dreaded to follow his
inclinations, lest he should be repulsed and their parting
be an event which would bring the most miserable re-
collections. He began to feel that their meeting was a
disappointment, that in social position and in mutual
regard they were and must of necessity be far apart.

"I must go in," said Manie.

"Oh, not yet ! Please do not go yet !" John remon-
strated. "We have just begun to talk.''

"I have stayed a great while now," said Manie. "If
people knew it, what would they say of my climbing from
a window to meet you at night ? "

"They will not know it," said John, "and there is no
hurt in it, I am sure. I own it does not reflect credit on
you to be seen with me. I am poor and disgraced. 1 do
not wish to drag you down to my level. To-morrow
morning I go away, and I shall not come back. Keep
from me in the future, but to-night bid me good-bye as
you would an equal."

"And where will you go }" asked Manie.

"Of that I am uncertain," said John. "I mean to
escape from my evil destiny. It has followed me like a
hound all my life. But I will struggle with it to the end.
If I am overcome, it will be when I have strength to fight
no longer. I mean yet to make a man whom the world will
and must respect. I will take no rest, I will work in
season and out of season ; and if I fail, it will not be my
fault."

"I believe you will succeed," said Manie. "" You
certainly deserve to."

"Do you think so ?" said John, excited so much that
his articulation was i^jdistinct. "By God's help I will

and try. If I
But if I succeed,



iJia Aiin^uiAiiuu WHS ifjCllSll"^L. -oy vrU

succeed / Manie, Af /^ Ratke, I will go
fail, I will stay away ^ fot^K ^^ ^ ^^^e. Bi




THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK o'Day. 231

if the world by its recognition acknowledges the wrong it
has done me, may I come back, come back with hope in
my heart, and ask you to be my wife ? "

"I can consent to no such proposal," said Manie.

"I do not blame you," said John dejectedly. "I make
an unreasonable request."

"You wrong me," said Manie.

"Yes," assented John, "I was foolish to speak as I did.
You have a right to resent such an offer from one in my
position."

"I care nothing for your position," said Manie, "But
your offer implies that I am selfish. It accuses me of
wishing to share your fortune, but escape your misfortune.
If I would have you at all, I would have you whether you
were rich or poor, successful or unsuccessful, esteemed
or despised."

Again John felt the buoyancy of hope. She was near
him, she, who, when he was menaced by danger and
tortured with pain, had with hardly an interruption oc-
cupied his thoughts for a fortnight. His arm stole about

"Do not drive me away just yet," he pleaded. "Repulse
me if you will, but after I have done speaking.
Manie, I must call you that name once, I did wrong you.
But now I ask you, shall we not go together in joy and
in sorrow, in prosperity and in adversity, in riches and
in poverty, in fame and in disgrace, as long as we live ?
It is a great sacrifice which I ask of you. Do not an-
swer me yet. Let me be in suspense. Let me think for
a moment that I have won you, that we need not again
be separated."

She did not reply, and his grasp* involuntarily tight-
ened. There was inspiration to John in every sight
and sound, in every message communicated by the senses.
The wind gently touched his brow.

Every orb in the sky was sending down its quota



232 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK o'Day,

blending with the sharp jerking chirrup of the katydid,
closed his eyes and plunged him into a reverie, which
was brief, delightful, and ever after unfogotten.

"I am ready for your answer," said John. "Sentence
me as you will."

"Yes," said Manie.

Her reply destroyed the last vestige of his composure.
He threw his other arm frantically about her and kissed
her again and again.

"Stop, stop !" said Manie. "One arm in that posture
is enough. I shall have to go in now."

They said nothing as they walked to the house. John
opened the window and lifted her carefully through.

"Give me a good-night kiss," he said. "I do not like
to take leave of you as formally as I did the last time I
was in the house."

"I hope you are satisfied now," she said, after his
demand had been granted.

He was about to take another salute without per-
mission, when Manie, anticipating his design, quickly
withdrew her head and closed the window.






234 ^^^ CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

major in his most polite manner introduced Mr. Bout-
well to the young ladies.

"So you've been fighting, Uncle James," said Nora.
"Who did you" have a fight with ? "

"I cannot explain it to you now, little girl," said the
major.

"You will, won't you, Mr. Boutwell ?" said Nora.
"Oh, you got into it, too, did you ? You and Uncle
James must have been together against a lot of 'em.
Uncle James always sticks by his friends. Didn't he
stick by you ? "

"Close enough," answered Mr.^ Boutwell with a grin.

"You are badly hurt. Uncle James," said Manie.
"Your eye is swollen, almost shut, and the cut under it
does not stop bleeding yet."

"It is nothing," said Ratke, "a little scratch. It takes
a worse wound than that to affect me."

Manie put a plaster over the bruised part. One of the
major's eyes looked sleepy, and Mr. Boutwell's face was
spotted with contusions and plasters.

"This way now, Mr. Boutwell," said the major, leading
the way to the parlor, "make yourself comfortable while
I do some writing."

"Manie," he called, when he had finished a short note,
"tell Mark to take this to Jim Turner. And now, Mr.
Boutwell," he said, "we will go."

"I wonder where in the world they've gone to at this
time of the night," said Mrs. Grippin, as the sound of
their footsteps was dying away. "Some notion James
has got, I suppose."

"Who do you think they had a fight with ?" asked Nora.

"How do you suppose I know any more than you do ? "
sharply returned Mrs. Grippin. "James ought to have
more care for his reputation than to get into such a
scrape. And the president of a big wagon company surely
could find better business than fighting."

"Maybe they stopped to Break o'Day, and somebody
pitched into 'em," suggested Nora.

"More likely somebody made fun of James' wagon,
and he got mad," said Mrs. Grippin. "That'll touch
him up the quickest of anything."




THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.



236 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA V.

to slave for others in their old age, and finally to be de-
pendent on local charity or go to the poor-house.

The major came home at dusk. "Well, Maria," he
said, "I have escaped without meeting any bad fortune."

"You want to look out for to-night," cautioned his sis-
ter. "Everybody knows that money is here. You must
watch it to-night."

"I am too tired to sit up," Ratke objected. "I was up
all last night. It will be all right under my head."

"No, it won't," said Mrs. Grippin. "You've got to get
some one to watch it, then."

"I hardly know whom to get," said the major. "All
the men up west have been to Oakville, looking after the
fire. Perhaps Philetus would come."

"Phleet," cried Mrs. Grippin wrathfully, "Phleet
Takum ! Haven't you got any more judgment than that?
You know he takes whatever he can lay his hands on ! "

"I suppose I might hire Abnei* Wallace," suggested
Ratke.

"I declare !'" ejaculated Mrs. Grippin, after a moment
of speechlessness. "Pick out a thief to watch money !
James, you are a bright one ! Get one of your men."

"I hate to ask them to do such things when they work
hard," said the major. "Mark is always willing to do
odd chores, but he did not go to bed till late last night.
I will see what I can do with them."

As the major went up the club-house steps, there was a
scrambling among the inmates. He opened the door too
late to see what had occasioned the confusion. The table
was covered with a newspaper, which was raised at one
cdrner enough to show several cards. But he did not
notice the evidence of immorality.

"Will," he said, "Maria will give me no peace until I
get a man to stay in the house to-night. She thinks we
are liable to be robbed. I have not the slightest fear of
such a danger, but to keep peace in the family I must do
as she wishes. Can you come ? "

"I've been to work awful hard to-day," said Archer.
"That's tough ploughing, you know. It's all I can do to
keep the plough in the ground. I could get along with it,
but I'm all drilled out."




THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA K 237

"I know it is hard work," said Ratke, "But Mark
was up last night, and I cannot ask him to go,"

"I'll go, Major," said Daggett,

"No," said the major, "I will not let you. You have
lost sleep enough."

"I wouldn't care so much about it," said Archer, "if it
wasn't for to-morrow. But this working as tight as you
can jump and then being up all night, and then keeping
right on the next day, it's too much."

"Oh, as to that," said Ratke, "you can sleep twenty-
four hours, commencing at six o'clock, if you wish."

"Seeing it's an emergency, I'll go," said Archer. "Of
course, I'm willing to make some sacrifice, Major,"

"You need not come unfil ten o'clock unless you wish,"
said the major, opening the door to depart, "We will sit
up as late as that."

"He wanted you," said Daggett, "and he didn't seem
to want anybody else, I wonder why that was,"

"Well," said Archer, "he knows what I am. I've
worked for him a good while,"

"Say," said Daggett, "if you get into a snooze, and a
horse-thief goes to jabbing you with a fish-pole, you want
to holler."

Archer, not relishing the reminiscences of his watch in
the swamp, went at once to the house.

Mrs, Grippin was in a passion over the major's choice
of watchman. "Now, Will," she said, "I want you to
have some gumption about you. Wake up once in your
life,"

"Yes," said Archer, "I'll tend right to it, Mrs, Grippin,
The major knows he can tru.st me for that,"

"I hope he is right," said Mrs. Grippin, "He and the
girls are in the parlor,"

The major explained his plan of guarding the money.
There was no danger, he said, but seeing Archer was to
watch, he should take every precaution against a robbery.
He should extinguish the light, he should barricade every
door leading to the room. Then with the money and a
revolver he should get into a dark corner. The north-
east was the best one.



238 7'HE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

Wisconsin Territory," said Ratke, "when we were chas-
ing Black Hawk. We had been hiarching all day, con-
stantly expecting to come up with the Indians. At night
we camped in the edge of a strip of woods, I was just
thinking of what a fine sleep I should have when the ser-
geant told me I was on for picket duty. ' My watch com-
menced at one o'clock. They posted me at least seventy
rods from the camp, a short distance from a creek. It
was rather a dark night and as we looked for an assault,
I did not fancy the position. Standing where the enemy
can see you, but you cannot see him, is quite different
from advancing tpward a perceptible danger. I knew
that if the Sacs and Foxes were prowling about, they had
an excellent chance to get my scalp. Sounds as of some-
thing going cautiously over the leaves kept coming from
some woods on the other side of the creek. Presently
there was a disturbance in the water, a subdued splashing
which 1 knew to be occasioned by the crossing of a man
or of some animal. The grass, which was tall and thick,
began to wave suspiciously, and to add to my uneasiness
the waves were coming toward me. I was at a loss what
to do. Staying there for a target with the certainty of
being hit the first fire was not in the least agreeable.
Abandoning the post and giving an unnecessary alarm
was to be avoided if possible. I got under cover of
a tree, held my rifle ready to use, and waited. I could see
a distinct advancing motion of the grass. I own I was
nervous as I fired. I was still more so, when the steady
motion changed to a spasmodic struggling and some ob-
jects which I could not see retreated: I had now no
doubt as to the proximity of the Indians, but I did not
think it my duty to go to the spot where I had heard the
struggling. I waited a few minutes and could plainly dis-
tinguish more splashing as if others were crossing the
creek. In a few minutes I was certain that some figures
were skulking along between me and the camp. The dis-
turbance in the grass near the creek continued. The
camp had been warned and I felt justifiable in aband^
ing my post. As I bore to the right, three or four shots-
from the direction of the skulkers made me give one
mighty jump. I brought my rifle to my shoulder, fired



-^^




THE CHROJ\!ICLES OF BREAK o'Day. 339

and ran. When 1 got to camp, everybody was up ready
for an attack. The first man 1 met was the orderly ser-
geant.

"' Why, Ratke,' said the sergeant when I came up, ' we
thought they'd killed you. Did you shoot at them or did
they shoot at you ? '

"' Both,' I answered.

"' Well, that's queer,' said the sergeant. ' We heard
only one shot'

"' I should think it is queer,' I answered. ' I fired at
them. Then they got between me and the camp and fired
three or four shots at me and I fired back.'

"' ^fow I don't see how that is,' said the sergeant.
'We saw one of them moving off. We fired at him, and
he fired back, and the ball just scraped Montcalm's side.'

"' What ! ' I said, ' was it you who came out there ? '
I understood it then. They had heard the shot I fired
and had crept out, when we mutually mistook each other
for Indians, In the morning 1 found near my post the
body of the largest raccoon I ever saw. New guards are
always fearful of an attack from the enemy. They forget
that the same prudence which they have will keep the foe
from hazarding a rash assault."

"Can't you sing something for us, Mr. Archer ?" asked
Nora, beginning to yawn.

"Oh, 1 guess not, Mrs. Warfle," answered Archer, in

1Kb rmnnei- luhl*.!! inflifforoni orMcti fTYHiInir tr, induCC mOrC



"If



you



[uired Nora,
e most of it."
greatest intol-
ared, left the
exaggerated a

"I've heard



240 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O* DA V.

Aunt Maria say she never knew any one with such a
voice."

"Now, Nora," said Mrs. Grippin, suddenly making her
appearance, "you've got to quit such nonsense for I won't
have it ! You shan't be mixing my name in."

Archer supposed that the housekeeper was displeased
because she rightly suspected that he was making a deep
impression on Nora. Loath to give up the exercise of his
fascination, he exchanged sly glances with the young lady,
to the great wrath of Mrs. Grippin, who determined to
wait until the proper moment, and then, rising in her just
indignation, to send Nora to bed. But as Nora caught
the gleam of her eye, and Archer abandoned his winking
and leering on finding that they were not returned, the
Trebian ambush was never sprung. Mrs. Grippin finally
returned to her room, saying, as she did so,

"Now, Nora, if I hear any more nonsense, you'll start
to bed."

"Mr. Archer," said Nora, a few minutes after the de-
parture of her stern relative, "did you ever read history
much ? "

"Yes," said Archer, "IVe read it a good deal."

"Who do you think was the greatest man that ever
lived ? "

"Well, now, I can't say positive," said Archer with a
wise nod," but I kind o' think George Washington was,
don't you ? "

"No," said Nora, "I think Tammany Hall was. But
they didn't treat him very well, though."

"That's a fact," said Archer, "they used him miser-
able."

"Who do you think was to blame ? "

"Well, now, it's been a good while since IVe read it
and a fellow will forget, you know. What do you think ? "

"I think Queen Elizabeth was. Let'^ see. What was
it he said when he got on board the steamer that was to
take him to Cape Colony } * Farewell, O England, thou
land of my birth.' "

"Yes, that was it," assented Archer.

"Oh, no. It wasn't either, come to think of it," said
Nora. "Don't you remember ?




THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O" DA Y.



He "was a poet, you know."

"That's so," said Archer. "I do remember now."

"What do you think of Moses the Great ? "

"I think he was quite a man."

"I guess he was quite a man. He conquered the whole
world, you know,"

"Yes, I know it," said Archer, bobbing his head.

"Oh, no," exclaimed Nora, "not quite all when we
think about it. There was Elisha the Seventh, of Russia,
beat him at Waterloo."

"So he did," admitted Archer.

"How Moses the Great did run his horses to get
away," pursued Nora, "full-blooded H amble tonians, too.
They said they tun awful."

"They claim they scratched gravel to beat all," sud
Archer.

"You can find pictures of all the great men in this his-
tory of the world," said Nora, bringing from one of the,
bookcases a large volume with morocco back and cor-

"I like to look at pictures. Mrs, Warfle," said Archer,
taking the history,

"Let's see," said Nora, "they called Elisha the Seventh
Giant Lishe, because he was such a great man to fight"

"I know they did," said Archer, "He was a tearer
let loose."

"Isn't it time to go to bed ?" asked Manie.

"No," answered Nora, "I'm not going to bed yet. Go
on if you want to. I believe he was born in the year eight
hundred and two. I think his greatest exploit was at the
battle of Lundv's Lane, where he slew Olyppus the Tiger
with his own hand. Let's see, was it one of his own
officers that killed him ? "

"I don't remember," said Archer. "I've had to work
so hard lately that I ain't read much. But I was posted



242 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

"That's so, Mrs. Warfle," assented Archer. ** He was
teetotally smashed."

The door suddenly opened and the staring visage of
Mrs. Grippin was thrust inside.

"Nora," she exclaimed, "weVe had enough Giant
Lishe for to-night. Now you can poke straight to bed."

Manie immediately rose to leave, and Nora, knowing
that it was useless for her to argue, prepared to obey her
aunt's orders. She went to the bookcase and slipped un-
der her apron a novel, which she intended to read in her
room. Archer, left to himself, turned over the pages of
the history to see if he could find the portraits of the
heroes whose merits he had been reviewing. He found
many military scenes and many pictures of warriors
whose heads were adorned with smooth helmets or jagged
crowns. But in his search he was not confronted by the
battle-scarred face of Moses the Great or Giant Lishe.

Mrs. Grippin soon came back and ordered him to pre-
pare for the night's vigil. She blew out the light, told
him to get in the corner designated by the major and
bade him a final good-night.

It chanced that the sofa was in that corner. Archer
was tired. It occurred to him that he could watch as
well reclining as erect. He laid the money on one end
of the lounge, placed his coat on it and his head on the
coat. The ticking of a small clock increased his drowsi-
ness, and in five minutes he was asleep.

An hour later an intruder was in the room, carefully
lifting Archer's head and removing the bag in his posses-
sion, when the eyes of the sleeper unclosed and Archer
raised himself on his elbow. The robber dashed through
the hall, running close to Nora, who was returning to the
library with the book which she had taken. He entered
the front bedroom and sprang through the open window,
disappearing among the evergreens, just as Archer, who
was now thoroughly awake, fired two shots after his retreat-
ing figure.
