CHAPTER XXV.

DURGENSON DEMANDS HIS MONEY,

"Oh, dear I Oh, dear! "wailed Nora, throwing her-
self on the floor. "What made you shoot ? Oh, Mr.
Archer ! What made you shoot 1 "

"I hit him !" cried Archer. "I know I did ! I'll bet
a dollar I did ! '

e of disturb-

)ney safe ? "
of that win-

lugh the win-
; to the gate,
adow of the
save himself,
he drew on
igly retained

landed Mrs.

can get up.

to her feet,

money, any
1 expression
cold lead in

id out over
in their em-
:red into the



244 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O* DAY.

hunt with a zeal which they had never manifested for farm
labor.

"It is of no use," said Ratke, as the morning drew near.
"The robber and the money are beyond our reach. Go
to the club-house and finish your sleep. I cannot give
it up yet, even though there is no hope."

Not one of the men would accept his offer. Unani-
mousl); they agreed to stand by their employer in his
extremity, and to continue their efforts as long as there
was hope. Daggett went to Break o'Day, roused a
few of the inhabitants, and made such arrangements as
he thought were likely to lead to the recovery of the ma-
jor's stolen property. The remainder of the hands and
Ratke were ranging about in the swamp when the ringing
of the upright saw in the apple-tree summoned them to
breakfast. While they were in the kitchen washing, Dag-
gett returned.

The late misfortune filled the major with a dejection
which nothing but the precipitation of his trouble and
the destruction of his hopes could create. The Barton
hundred and sixty had gone ; the homestead must go.
The study, the tool-house, the improvements which he
had made, were to be his but a day. He told the men
that they need not begin work that morning, as he would
like to see them in the club-house. When they had gath-
ered with many speculations as to the nature of his an-
nouncement, he addressed them in a brief speech.

^* My faithful men, it grieves me to communicate to you
what it is now necessary that you should know. For
years you have been in my service and have performed
well the tasks which I have given you. In every exigency
you have been my efficient helpers ; to all my enterprises
you have lent cheerful aid. Distasteful as is the duty, I
must tell you that we can no longer maintain the relations
of employer and workmen. Another man holds the deed
of my farm^ of which he can take possession whenever he
desires. The money with which I could have tempo-
rarily satisfied him and paid you has been stolen. I would
be doing you injustice if I allowed you to stay, when I
am uncertaiij that I can requite your honest labor. My
greatest trouble is that I am already owing you debts




246 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK a DA K

As he rocked back and forth, no reflections would come,
except those of the most gloomy character.

"Uncle James," said Manie, thinking to divert his
mind from his trouble, "we have a great deal of dif-
ficulty with the churning. I wish you would invent a
churn for me."

"That I will, my little girl," said the major, again tak-
ing his hand from his chin. "Leave me alone awhile.
I want to think."

"I have it, Manie !" he exclaimed at the expiration of
half an hour. "I have the plan of an invention which
will preserve the grain of the butter as well as the swing
churn and do the quickest work which is done except by
steam or water power. It is a dasher which gives the
cream the rotary motion of the swing churn."

"James," interrupted Mrs. Grippin, "you don't know
when we'll have to leave here. You better fill up all our
ticks with new straw."

???' Very well," said the major, rising at once.
He was nearly to the tool-house when Mrs. Grippin
called after him, "Why, James Ratke, what do you
want that coat on for this hot day ? I should think you'd
roast."

*' I should be more comfortable with it off," said Ratke,
who was too miserable to think of petty physical com-
forts. He went to the stack and pulled out some straw
I before he reflected that he had forgotten the ticks. He

returned to the house and brought them out, one by one.
' Then he thoughtlessly emptied them near the path. Mrs.

Grippin came to the door, expressed her displeasure at
I his act and advised him to take a wheel-barrow to carry

I back the filled ticks. Partly understanding her injunction,

I he took the wheel-barrow and brought several loads of

I straw near the pile of ticks.

"Take the ticks out to the straw-stack," called the
 housekeeper. "You're scattering the straw all over the

5 yard."

Ratke meekly obeyed. He pulled the straw with no
\ thought of what he was doing. He had tried to rivet his

. attention on the projected churn, but that was for any

considerabie teagt/i ^^ ^^???^ impossible. He was con-



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK (T DA V. 147

tinuaily reminded of the farm whose ownership he had
allowed to be wrested from him. He missed the clumsy
jokes of the men. Archer's monotonous song was not
echoing from a distant field. No teams were at work on
his fallow. Stagnation had come to his enterprises, his
energies, his hopes ; and ambition, its clamor for food
disregarded, had suddenly died.

"Right at il, Major," said the hearty voice of Durgen-
son. "I suppose the women got you into that."

"Yes," said Ratke, straightening from his stooping pos-
ture over a tick. "You are rather late, Durgenson."

"Yes," said the cattle-buyer, "but you see, I had
business so I couldn't come. I hope I haven't made
you any trouble by it. Has it made any difference to
you ? "

"A great difference to both of us," answered Ratke.
"The money I had for you was stolen last night."

"What!" ejaculated Durgenson with genuine disap-
pointment. "Stole I I wouldn't think you'd have let it
got stole."

"I was up until nearly morning night before last," ex-
plained the major, "and last night I had one of my men
act as guard. He slept at his post, and the thief came
through a window, took the money and got away, I wish
you had come yesterday."

"Well, I didn't," said Durgenson testily, "and I
couldn't. What are you going to do about it? I've got to
have something right away."

"There is nothing I can do," replied Ratke. "I am at
your mercy."

"Oh, I won't be hard," said Durgenson. "All 1 want
is what is fair. You can scrape me up a little, maybe,
???nd I can wait on you for the rest."

"There is no more scraping to be done," said the major,
"I have paid you all I can."

"You have a fair horse there," said Durgenson. "I'll
take him and allow you a thousand dollars for him."

"I cannot possibly do that," said Ratke.

"And why not ?" asked Dureenson. "I've got to have
something if I wait, you know.

"I owe some debts for farm machinery," SEud Ratke.



248 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

"I owe four hundred dollars to the man of whom I bought
Taylor, and I owe my men some hundreds of dollars."

"You can stave them off," said Durgenson, "Of course,
they haven't any security, I wouldn't pay them . a cent
when I was so hard up. I'd wait till I was in better cir-
cumstances."

"They must be paid," said the major emphatically, "I
promised it to them, and they must have it if I fast"

"But your men," said Durgenson, "they'd wait on you
a spell."

"The laborer is worthy of his hire," said Ratke. "My
men shall be paid before another creditor has the first
dollar."

"You want me to wait until you pay everybody else,"
cried Durgenson angrily. "You can understand now that
I won't do it. You promised me four thousand dollars,
and I'm going to have something, or I'll shove you oil the
place."

"I am not to blame because you failed to come yes-
terday," said Ratke. "Neither am I to blame because of
the theft. Neither am I to blame for wishing to pay my
honest hired men first of all."

"Just as you like," returned Durgenson in a fury. "I'll
send a man in the morning to shove you out into the
street ! Your promises are a waste of wind. You've
fooled me all you are going to. I did think you was
honest."

"Do you mean to say, you liar," cried the major, "that
I misrepresented to you ? "

"What !" exclaimed Durgenson. "Don't you call me
a liar I I won't take that from any man I"

"You are a liar !" said Ratke, advancing and peering
into the face of the cattle-buyer. "This is my place for
to-day. Now go, or I will kick you off the premises ! And
do not say one word in leaving ! Not one word," he con-
tinued, as Durgenson's lips moved.

Durgenson turned and moved slowly toward the road.

"Faster!" commanded Ratke, following close at his
heels.

Durgenson qiiickencd his pace, climbed hastily over the
fence and Stopped jfi the highway.



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK (f DAY. 249

"Come over here if you want toiight !" he said. "Come
right over here if you dare ! "

Durgenson, in the prime of manhood, large and athletic,
contrasted strongly with the haggard, white-haired old man
who promptly chmbed the fence to accept his challenge.
Unfastening the top button of his coat and drawing from
the garment his right arm, he stood undecided whether
to give or to decline battle. As Ratke advanced with an
expression of determination, he slipped his arm inside the
coat and fastened the button, at the same time saying,

"I won't be guilty of fighting whh an old man."

"Never mind the guilt," said the wrathful major.
"You must either fight or leave, and that immediately,"

"I don't like trouble," said Durgenson, making for his
bug^. "I'll have you out of here to-morrow," he called,
when he had got his horse under a round trot. "You've
lied to me all I'm going to stand."

"You ought to have licked him," said Mrs. Grippin,
who with the girls had come to the gate, afraid that the
major might be harmed by the stalwart cattle-buyer.

"I will not chase a man to fight," said Ratke. "Maria,
do vou know where the cradle is ? Thereaoer is broken.



250 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

swooped down on the outer edge of the swath, Undiscour-
aged by his awkwardness, he whipped the cradle back and
forth, making good time in spite of all ditficujties. His
face was covered with sweat, he was much fatigued and
the upper part of his right fore-arm pained him excessively,
yet he did not stop till near sundown. Weary, lame and
disconsolate, he went to the house, where he found wait-
ing the supper which he had no desire to eat.

"I must go at the chores," he said. "I had forgotten
them."

"No, you don't want to go at any chores," said Mrs.
Grippin, "You ought to know when you've done enough.
You stay here, and Manie and I will do the chores.
Act as though you had some sense. You don't want
to be sick. I'll milk the cows, and Manie can look to the
horses."

"I'll help," volunteered Nora, who was strangely sober.
"I'll milk part of the cows. Aunt Maria."

"We'll go right out," said Mrs. Grippin stepping to the
kitchen." Nora, where did you put those pails ? "

"I left them on the shelves," said Nora,

"No, you didn't," said Mrs. Grippin. "They're not
here. We'll have to take the water pails. That's all."

Near the barnyard they heard the sound of milk going
into a tin pail, and, opening the gate, they saw that Daggett
was stripping the last cow.

"Why I" exclaimed Mrs. Grippin, "It was you that
got the pails, Mark."

"Yes," said Da^ett, "I looked over this way, and I
got homesick. I wanted to come and chore around the
old barn once more."

"I'm ever so much obliged to you," said Mrs. Grippin.
"I hope I can make this up to you, Mark."

"I don't want it made up," said Daggett. "How's the
major ? "

"He's about sick, and I'm afraid he's going to be.
Durgenson was here to-day and talked hard to him.
He's going to put us ofE to-morrow."

"We'll be right on hand if he tries that," said Da^ett
impetuousJy, "euerV '"^" "f us. We'll make him and
his crowd wisii f/, ^ was somewhere else."



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK a DAY. 351
That night the major was restless. Harassed, over-
worked and overheated, he tossed from side to side in his
efforts to find an easy posture. His head throbbed and
became the seat of a dull pain. A strange roaring sound
was in his ears, but, when he sat up in bed, it ceased.
After it had several times recurred, and been dispelled by



252



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK a DA Y,


