CHAPTER XXVI.
RAMOTH GILEAD.

Centuries of investigation have not revealed definitely
the laws of mind and motive. It is true that their
interpretation is attempted, that conduct is often
prognosticated; but how often is the judgment set aside by
that superior court, the actual occurrence. Montcalm's
condition was complicated by the terrible excitement which
he had undergone. He may have been sane or insane.
It is my task not to explain but to narrate.

After his confederate, Boutwell, had failed in his
attempt at robbery, Montcalm formed his second plan to
thwart the cupidity of Durgenson. As he stood over
Archer in Ratke's house, a strange fragment of memory
came to him, a fragment which, even then, he strove to
connect and locate. He had seen that dull countenance
when it was impressive, when it had terrified him.
Something of that terror returned. Suddenly he remembered
his dream. He saw himself again flying through the
swamp, he saw Archer arise, he heard the shot which
stopped his progress.

His hand trembled as he removed the money-bag from
Archer's head. It was then that he was seized with an
unbalancing of self-possession, which sometimes consigns
to an adverse fate even the bravest of men.

He was struck in the back by one of the shots which
Archer fired. He ran nearly to the barnyard without becoming
aware of the seriousness of his wound, but, when
he reached the straw-stack, he comprehended that he was
badly hurt. The swamp was toward half a mile distant
and the intervening fields offered little protection. Too
weak to go much farther, he crawled into a hole which the
cattle had made m the stack, and at the entrance of which
Daggett had placed some short rails to prevent its being
enlarged. He burrowed as far as he could in the end of
this cave, covering himself with the littering which lay
thick on the bottom. Before he had completed the work
of secretion, Ratke dashed past the opening. In the
course of a minute he came back and but a few feet from
Montcalm commenced to don his trousers.

Of the bodily and mental suffering endured by Montcalm
that night and the succeeding day who but the One
all-wise can ever know.

The day of anguish, the longest which Montcalm had
ever known, drew near its close. The shadows deepened
in the miserable dwelling where lay the miserable man.

Some one was again pulling straw from the stack. He
raised his head to see who was disturbing his painful
reflections. For a moment, as his gaze fell on Manie, he
was glad, but his joy soon changed to longing and regret.
He wished that the burden of his sin were lifted from
him, that he were even then dying, and she his nurse.
Peacefully he would pass into that world from which he
now shrank, with her soothing hand upon his brow, with
her sympathetic words sounding in his ears. While he
was watching her, she hastily gathered the straw in her
arms and ran toward the barn. Montcalm heard the
conversation between Mrs. Grippin and Daggett. He
envied this fellow with his never-failing fund of good spirits,
his perfect adaptation to circumstances. He would have
traded his identity for that of the most unlettered of the
hired men, even for that of Archer with his ignorance and
egotism and his sleepy, inexpressive face. His recollection
during the night was singularly fruitful. Before him
was spread out his whole life, a long manuscript, on which
he read the beginning and the end of error. Of all
events the most persistent in recurring was the murder of
Green. The frightful gash, the staring eyes, the dripping
of blood into the well, were presented as vividly to him as
when, gloomy and inert, he stood by the body of his
victim in the cellar. He recalled the minute particulars
of the dream which succeeded his crime. How smooth
was that river, and how typical was it of his boyhood.
What would he not give to be as he was and sport in the
meadows beside it, to plunge into its waters and cool the
fever which was consuming his body and his soul. He
believed he understood why Green had leered at him.
That confident expression of triumph had been prophetic.
The murderer had met and was meeting his reward. His
encounter with Archer in the swamp was not meaningless.
Its second enactment in Ratke's house had, indeed, stopped
his flight and now promised to deliver him into the
hands of that being who had taught him his bland deceit,
whose recompense for service had been disappointment,
remorse and ruin.

Once more Montcalm crawled from the stack for water.
He had greatly weakened during the day. With faltering
steps he went to the tank. He took a generous draught
and wet his head and face. The cool water revived him,
and his tottering legs grew stronger. He believed that
his damnation was assured, and that he could add nothing
to the punishment which was to be meted out to him.
His one desire was to gratify his hatred of Durgenson.
Very soon the estate would be in the hands of the
dishonest stock-buyer. He surveyed the barns and the
house. What a fine appearance they gave to the place,
and at how little cost had Durgenson secured them.
He tossed the bottle by the tank. He would need it no
more. His lips closed tightly, his hands were clenched.
He threw the bag of stolen money into the hollow "which he
had quitted, and walked to the small barnyard gate, where,
hardly able to stand, he sat down. But his rest did not
help him. He must go on before he was overtaken by
exhaustion. He walked a few steps farther, and, sinking
on the earth, commenced to crawl toward the house.
The straw was scattered thickly along his route. He was
obliged frequently to suspend his exertions, but he did
not dare stop long, fearful that his little remaining energy
would forsake him. From the place where one of the
ticks had been emptied, he gathered some straw, which he
carried in his arms. Rising once more, he traversed the
small space which was between him and the house. He
wished to get to the southwest corner of the building,
but it seemed to him that he could go no farther. He
raised himself on his elbow. Hugging the straw, he
edged along on one arm and a leg. With deliberate
desperation he measured his strength, knowing that if he
were prodigal of it he must fail in his design.

At the corner he lay down for several minutes. A
light wind was blowing from the southwest. He raised
himself, placed the straw against the house and ignited it.
The blaze caught in the dry clapboards and rose slowly,
then rapidly toward the eaves.

Montcalm endeavored to escape to a cooler atmosphere.
He crawled feebly to the edge of the spruce, and by a last
pitiable effort succeeded in getting among them. A
column of flame had mounted high in the house. The
bright light and the dark rolling smoke reminded him of
the awful glare he had seen in the mystic land of which be
had dreamed, and he knew that his Ramoth Gilead had
come.
