CHAPTER XXVIII.
JOHN HEARS AN ACCOUNT OF HIS ADVENTURE.

The morning after his visit to Ratke's John left Mrs.
Boyle's house. To the very last she opposed his departure.

"I have special reasons for wanting you to stay, John,"
she said. "I can't tell you. what they are, but I wish you
wouldn't go."

"It is impossible for me to stay longer," said John.

"Then," said Mrs. Boyle, "you'll tell me where you
are going."

"1 will write after I get settled," answered John. "But
you will keep the knowledge of my whereabouts to yourself.
I wonder if a mother were ever as kind as you have
been to me. Good-bye."

John found Barton Junction to consist of a store and
a depot. He had been in the depot but a short time
when two young men entered the waiting-room and stood
near an old lady whose baggage was strewn about the
seats. The young men had the appearance of rowdies, al-
though they were quite well dressed. Both wore dark suits
and felt hats. One hat was girt with a flat and one with
a round braid. The younger, who wore the flal-braided
hat, seemed to be an ardent admirer of the other, for he
simulated many of his actions. He was most anxious to
acquire the dexterity which his companion exhibited in
ejecting tobacco-spittle through his teeth in a fine stream.
He attempted this feat so frequently, and his teacher
gave him so plentiful instruction that the floor was soon
spotted with yellow stains, and the old lady hastily began
picking up the articles on the seats to keep them from
pollution.

"Where did you get that hat, Tom ?" asked the
younger man, trying to train his mustache to curl upward



266 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA K

and then lop down at the ends as did that of his com-
rade.

** Oh, I got that to Port Huron," said the one addressed
with the air of an instructor. "They're all the rage
now."

"It's nobby, sure enough. Guess Til have to git one,"
said the imitator, sending a small stream of tobacco-juice
almost into the satchel with a skill which until then he
had not attained.

The good old lady was not fretful, but she was averse
to having her queer mixture of luggage subjected to such
treatment. Without the haste and nervousness with which
most women would have performed the task, she arranged
the several parts of her baggage and prepared for de-
parture.

"Did you ever hear anything of that feller that stole
Whipple's colt t" said the young man, who was called
Tom. "I ain't been around here much this summer, you
know, and I didn't learn much about it."

"No, they never heard anything of him. He was
sharp, that feller was, and they wanted to keep right out
of his way." *

"How do you know, Al ? Did you see him ? "

"See him ?" repeated Al. "I guess I did ! I was in
a boat trying to head him off, and he shot within four
inches of my hand, and the next time the ball just skip-
ped over my head. I tell you that was a close call, Tom."

"Why didn't you head him off ? " inquired Tom.

"Oh, he slipped by some way and got away from us.
He dove into them tamaracks, and then all Michigan
couldn't have caught him."

"Didn't you all feel kind o' timid ? " asked Tom.
"Wasn't you a little afraid when he come close to you t "

"Timid ? No, sir ! I told him just what I thought of
him, called hira every name I could lay my tongue to."

"The train's a comin'," said a rustic looking man who
had been watching from the outside.

Wrengell, who had been for some minutes uneasy in
his quarters, yet afraid to show any sign of impatience,
made for the door as soon as he heard the first rumble of
the approaching wheels. He was aboard while the cars



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA K 267

were still butting each other back and forth in the last
few jerks before the total suspension of motion. A blue
cloud and an odor of tobacco announced to him that in
his haste he had taken the smoking-car. With the con-
solation that there were worse odors than that of tobacco
and that he was in the presence of strangers, he seated
himself, but his brief season of congratulation was cut
short by the entrance of the young men who had been
discussing his adventure.

After a few preliminary puffs and jerks the engine
started with its load from Barton Junction. As the little
depot and the diminutive store with its proprietor on the
steps moved backward into the separating distance, neither
the voices about him nor the danger of recognition by his
former pursuer could keep him from sending a protracted
farewell look in the direction of Ratke*s. It would be
long before he could retrace his steps. During the period
of waiting, whose extent was painfully uncertain, he
would often in his boundless fancy send the reverbera-
tions of his music through the major's parlor, would wan-
der through an orchard with springing leaves and open-
ing blossoms, would pass his arm about an object beside
whose attraction that of the richly-clad trees was insipid,
if not forgotten. And how, when he had fed on the husks
of dreams and found in them no nutriment, would he
grow restless, waiting for the reality which did not come,
how his heart would sink if year after year the struggle for
respectability was continuous and unavailing. He was
aroused from his reverie by some negroes in front of him
noisily playing High, Low, Jack and the Game. Soon
after, he became conscious that the young men whom he
had seen in the depot were engaged in a talk, which was
likely to prove interesting to him.

"They nabbed Wallace and Ab, nice," remarked the
one who was called Al.

"So I heard," answered his companion, "but I didn't
learn how they done it."

"Oh, that was Jerusalem Ratke's work," said Alf. '
"You know in the spring they had what they called a
* committee of five,' to hunt out the thieves. After they
had the big hunt, everybody got disgusted and didn't go a



268 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK & DA Y.

cent's worth on the committee. All of 'em laid the whole
blame off on Ole Jetus'lem, But, when they had such a
time with that feller, what was his name ? -- Wrengell -- they
found a road that had been cut out in the swamp, yes, sir,
a regular road, and a place where horses had been kept.
Then Ole Jerus'lem, he was hot, you know, he raised a
big rumpus. He said if anybody hurt his man, Wrengell,
they'd be sorry for it. Somebbdy noticed that Ab and
the ole man wasn't to home ihe next day, so what did Ole
Jerus'lem do but hatch up a plan witti the committee
{Green was dead, and this here Montcalm had gone away),
hatch up a plan with the committee, you know, to watch
the house nights. They didn't stay away only one day.
They come back, and one night Jim Turner was a watch
ing -- he thinks there never was a man like Jerus'lem -- he
saw 'em go out of the house. He followed 'em down be-
yond Oakville, and there they got a horse from a barn
that belonged to a man by the name of Matthews. Jim
saw 'em go to their own barn with the horse, and then he
went home. In the morning he got out a warrant for 'em
and took 'em to Jackson."

Al the next station a young fellow walked into the
smoking-car.

"Helloa, Jim," said Tom, "we was just a-talking about
you."

"I hope it wasn't anything bad," said the new-comer.

John gave a start as he listened to the words. For a
moment he vainiy tried to recollect where he had heard
that voice, as he was certain that he had met its owner,
but he soon became assured of the young fellow's iden-
tity. He was in the presence of Jim Turner, who has
been given in two preceding chapters the distinction only
of being a friend to Ratke and of wearing a peculiar white
hat. He was alarmed at the new arrival. A boy came
into the car selling books, pamphlets and papers. John
bought a large pamphlet and held it so as to shield him
from the observation of Turner, who was seated with his
bacfc toward him, {,^1 who would, according to all likeii-
hood, occasionally p-lAiice backward as he conversed with
his companions. ???
"Oh, yes. H'e 1^ --iving you Jesse," said Tom. "We



270 TUE CtJRONICLES OF BREAK W DAY.


about, hiding the smaller ones, which in other places would
have been called large. While Ihey were halting at a
small station, John saw, even through the smoke- dimmed
atmosphere, five elevations, rising one behind the other
according to the order of size, the largest in the back-
ground.


VVrengell terminated his ride at Ann Arbor. He as-
cended a rise of ground and came to the main part of the
city.

"Can you tell me where the hospital is ?" he inquired
of a young fellow who had the air of a student.

"Which one ?" asked the fellow,

"I hardly know," answered John. "I thought there
was only one,"

"Well," said the young fellow, "there is but one that
amounts to anything. You don't want anything to do
with those homeopathic quacks. Go around the corner,
and yon will see a large square building with parts built
on it. Just beyond it you will see another like it, and on
that one you will see University Hospital in large letters.
You are sure you can find it ? "

"I think so," said John.

"I think I had better go with you," said the fellow,
turning about and accompanying Wrengell. "If you
should get in with those Homeopath is ts, you wouldn't get
a bit of help. What is the trouble with you ? "

"A trouble which I have had a long time," answered
John,

"Excuse me," said the guide. "Patients don't always
like to tell their ailments. That is the building there,
where that man is standing."

"I am obliged to you for your trouble," said John as the
young man hurried away.



THE CHKONICLES OF BREAK a VA Y, 27 1

