CHAPTER XXIX.
AMONG THE INVALIDS.

John stood in front of a square building which was a
few paces from the street. From the rear of the square
part, at either side, branched wings, which turned and
joined in a large structure after proceeding back for some
distance. Wrengell subsequently learned that the wing at
the left was the men's ward, that at the right was the
women's, and the part where they joined in the rear was
the clinical amphitheater, in which surgical operations
were performed.

The man to whom the student had alluded had gone
inside the yard, and was about to enter the men's ward.
He was a sandy-haired man of about fifty, with very thin,
sandy whiskers. A defective mustache and a beardless
strip on either side of his under-lip exposed in its full
ugliness his mouth, which was repulsive in the extreme.
His face was red and unprepossessing, as if liquor had
swollen its veins and thoughts of crime had governed its
expression.

"How do you do?" he said with a smile, which he
meant to be affable, but which lifted the few hairs on his
upper lip and uncovered his mouth in a way which seemed
hideous to John. "Come here for treatment, have you?"

"Yes," answered John shortly.

The man opened the door.

"Come right in," he said, as if he were inviting a guest
to enter his mansion. "You must make yourself at home
here."

A long hall separated the two divisions which were
allotted to the respective sexes. The men's ward was a
large room with a row of narrow beds on each side, which
were capable of holding comfortably but one occupant.
By the head of every bed was a stand on which was a
wash-bowl and a pitcher. The white face of one invalid
rested on a pillow near the door. The rest of the patients
were able to sit up; most of them, indeed, were apparently
healthy. The diseases treated were, as a rule, of a
chronic nature and, with the exception of deformed limbs
and abnormal growths, few of them gave to an unpracticed
observer any indication of their existence. Several men
were reading. A number were sitting down, engaged in
no visible occupation. Some were conversing in pairs.
One man was entertaining several listeners with an
anecdote of the civil war.

"They come from all over," said John's new acquaintance,
"from New York and Massachusetts and from California,
and one from Texas. This is a great university,
and we ought to be proud of it. Let me see, where do you
hail from?"

"I have no permanent home," replied John, "I stay
where I happen to be called by business."

"Very good plan," said his new acquaintance. "Make
the best of your lot, wherever you be. Let me see, what
is your name?"

"Wrengell," answered John.

"Is that so," said his companion. "Was you ever in
Branch County?"

"I have traveled around the state some, and I may
have been there," replied John, his countenance reddening.

"Is your name John?" the man inquired.

"What if it is?" said Wrengell in desperation. "What
do you know of me?"

"I guess we're pretty near relatives," said the man,
again lifting his thin mustache. "I'm sure of it. Wasn't
your father's name Archibald?"

"What do you know of him?" asked John, growing
sick at heart.

"Quite a bit," said the disagreeable stranger, "as much
as any man knows about his brother. We was twins.
You don't say he wasn't your father. Now, tell me honest,
isn't your name John?"

"It is," admitted John.

"I was sure of it," said the elder Wrengell, grasping
John's hand. "I've found my nephew that I haven't
heard anything of for eight years. You're just the picture
of Archie when he was of your age. Your mother was
dark. Here comes a doctor. He'll take down your name,
and you'll have to give an account of your disease. Doctor
Webb, this is my nephew, Mr. Wrengell."

"May I see you alone?" asked John.

"Certainly," replied the doctor.

John, in an embarrassed way, explained to the medical
man that he wished a deformity removed. He was assured
that on the morrow the sixth toe would be amputated.
He was returning from the consultation when
he saw approaching him a middle-aged lady who carried
a lead-pencil and a note-book. The officious uncle, also
espying her, came toward John.

"Mrs. May," he said, "I'll introduce my nephew, Mr.
Wrengell, John Wrengell."

"I suppose you know the rules of this establishment,
Mr. Wrengell?" said the lady.

"No, I do not," said John, afraid that in his ignorance
he had broken some rule of the hospital.

"Oh, he isn't used to this place, you know," said the
elder Wrengell apologetically. "He means all right.
Johnny's a good boy."

"The rule is to pay a week's board in advance," said
Mrs. May, "three dollars and a half. I suppose that you
will be willing to be governed by it."

"Perfectly," answered John, "I will pay you now."

Hereafter in speaking of John we will omit his surname,
applying it in distinction only to the elder Wrengell.
John's spirits sank to a low ebb after his entrance to the
hospital. He, of all men, proud, sensitive and aspiring,
could least afford to be hampered by so objectionable a
clog as Wrengell. The very clothes which the man wore
looked to John to be the fitting garb of the sot and convict.
The sand-colored coat was of the same hue as one
which John had warn when he attended district school.
He well remembered that garment, which had awakened
so much ridicule. The boys had jerked him down by it.
Once they had stripped it from him, torn it and almost
buried it in the dirt, in which it had been hardly distinguishable.
Some of them had held him so that he could not
see where they put it and it had taken him a long lime to
find it. Ever since then he had hated sand-colored coats.

His history was being repeated. He was leaving behind
him shameful associations, ignorance was loosing its
grip, poverty had already parted with much of its evil
power, they were all about to slacken their influence and
allow him the esteem of men, when another disgrace
bound him to them anew. What would Manie say when
she saw his uncle and heard him give his affectionate
regards to his nephew "Johnny"? Had he known, as he stood
before the hospital, the vexatious surprise which awaited
him, he could have turned from it and gone his way. He
thought now of leaving the city, but he concluded to wait
until the operation had been performed.

"Johnny," said Wrengell, "you didn't tell me whether
you'd ever lived in Branch or not."

"Let us take a walk," said John, not wishing his
companion's speculations to be overheard.

"All right," responded Wrengell, "that'll please me.
Where had we better go now, to the museum?"

"No, I do not care to go there," answered John.

"We can just walk then," said Wrengell. "I ain't particular.
I've seen everything they have there anyway. I
didn't know but you might have some curiosity. I see
you don't think we're any relation."

"I suppose every member of the human family is
related to every other member," replied John. "If we
could trace it to Adam, we might prove our relationship."

"I can do it without," said Wrengell, with a pleased
look which made him appear particularly villainous, "I
know all about you, as much as a man ought to know
about his nephew. You lived with a man by the name of
Norris. He was in the township of Terry. I don't remember
the section, but there's a swamp in the northeast
corner of his farm, a little swamp. Now, you won't say
you never picked huckleberries in that swamp,"

John was silent.

"I thought you wouldn't," said Wrengell. "You must
have heard Norris speak about your Uncle Arthur, Art,
sometimes they call me. We was twins, but Archie didn't
look so much like me as Reuben. Your father was tall,
like you. Now, I can tell you how old you are. You was
born twenty-two years ago last February. You are a
month younger than my boy, Dan. Dan looks some like
you, too. You're both regular Wrengells."

"Where does he live?" asked John, too miserable
to resent Wrengell's persistence in enforcing his society.

"He's in trouble now," replied Wrengell. "He's in
the House of Correction at Ionia. The way of it was, a
fellow Dan was intimate with stole a box of cigars. Then
he bet a box of cigars with Dan. Dan he's sharp if he is
my boy, he won 'em. They found the cigars with him.
Now, Johnny, are you going to disown me, your uncle,
the only uncle you've got? You don't seem so glad to
see me as I expected you to. If you don't want me to, I
won't say anything more to you."

"Let me think it over," said John. "I want to do
right. But let us say nothing of our family affairs before
listeners."

"That's a good plan," assented Wrengell. "We've
been unlucky, the Wrengells have."

The following day surgical operations were performed
in the clinical amphitheater, and John parted with his
sixth toe. He felt no reluctance at the separation. The
member had rendered him no service, had given him no
comfort. He could not help reflecting, however that he
had exchanged a concealed for an open disgrace.

Wrengell was disagreeably kind during John's recovery
from the amputation. He brought him water and tried to
smile encouragingly on him. It seemed to John that he
kept the coat which awakened such detested recollections
constantly before his eyes. Several days after the operation
was performed, he waked into the ward with a pair
of crutches. "I thought you'd need these, Johnny," he
said. "You see your uncle don't forget you."

"What did they cost?" asked John.

"We don't care anything about the cost," answered
Wrengell. "They're a present."

"But I care," said John. "I do not want you to pay
out your money for me."

"Now, Johnny, I feel as though I'd like to," said
Wrengell. "You will let your uncle do this for you, won't
you?"

John, disliking to wound Wrengell's feelings, accepted
the gift. His maimed foot made rapid progress toward
recovery. It was, no doubt, fortunate on account of his
sprained ankle, which was not entirely well, that he was
for a season kept from stepping on his left foot. At times
the thought occurred to him that he might be followed
and identified as the suspected horse-thief who had fled
from Break o'Day. He had hesitated to give his real
name at the hospital, but the reported change of popular
sentiment in his favor and his aversion to adopting a
subterfuge which was worthy of his ignoble parentage induced
him to pursue the more open course.

One day in the hospital he was sitting in an arm-chair
by his bed. Near him was a man who had a hard bunch,
about as large as a walnut, on one side of his neck.

"This is the dullest place I ever got into," was the observation
of this latter individual, as he laid down a newspaper
with a yawn. "Read, mope, talk, walk around,
sleep, that's all there is to it. I don't see as I'm any
better than I was when I come. I come far enough so I
ought to get help, from old Genesee County, New York,
They had good doctors there, first-rate. I wanted to try
them. But I'd heard a good deal about Ann Arbor. My
friends they kept harping, 'Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor. Go
to Ann Arbor. They can do big things to Ann Arbor.'
And now I've got here, I wish I was back. They had a
better doctor right there in Batavia; he's dead now, but
he was a better doctor than they've got in this whole
institution. He could tell what was the matter with you as
quick as he saw you. These fellows don't know anything
about it. They only guess. They're just as apt to get it
wrong as right."

The dissatisfied New Yorker picked up his paper and
scanned a column which he had previously overlooked.

"Well, now," he exclaimed, "if these Michigan folks
don't beat all. Roughest set I ever see. Here's a man
stole some money, got shot and then went back and set a
big house afire.'

"Where did that happen?" asked John.

"Maybe you'd like to read it,' said the New Yorker,
handing John the paper.

John could hardly repress his excitement as he learned
the tragic story of Montcalm's death and the burning of
Ratke's house. He sincerely mourned Montcalm, and
his sympathy for the unfortunate family of the major was
unbounded. He tried, to smother the thought that the
event, so disastrous to his friends, had raised his prospect
of success merely by lowering the standard to which he
was aspiring. For this selfish consolation he detested
himself, and the remorse which he felt for harboring it
more than equaled the satisfaction which it afforded.

He immediately wrote a letter to Manie, expressing his
sorrow for their loss. Ignorant of the extent of the
major's misfortunes, he supposed that he would remain
on his farm where he would erect a new house. He was
now able to wear slippers and to walk about with the aid
of his crutches. Putting the letter, which was not yet
stamped, on the stand by his bed, he prepared to go to
the street.

"Going up town?" queried Wrengell.

"Yes," said John.

"Guess I'll go too," said Wrengell, "if you've no
objections. Maybe you think rather hard of me, Johnny,"
he began when they were on the sidewalk. " Of course
you've heard Norris tell something about me."

"I have heard something of you," said John.

"I reckoned likely," pursued Wrengell. "I've been
slandered. I was unfortunate, as he told you, of course,
and got behind the bars in Jackson. But, Johnny, I
wasn't guilty. I swear to you on my word of honor, the
word of honor of your uncle, I wasn't guilty. I don't
blame the jury nor the judge. My freedom was swore
away, and it was done by a fellow I'd helped a good deal.
Some things was took from a jewelry store in Detroit, that
wasn't a great ways from where I lived, just about four
blocks. It didn't worry me much when an officer arrested
me for it, for I knew I could prove my good character.
I said, 'All right, sir, you won't keep me long.' I was a
little worried when they brought in the jewelry and said
they found it tucked away in my house. My lawyer said
to me, 'That looks bad, Wrengell. If you hadn't bore
an awful good character, you wouldn't never get out of
this.'

'Let 'em work,' I said. 'My reputation is too good
for me to be hurt much. Anybody that knows Arthur
Wrengell knows he won't steal.' Why, I've had rich men,
the best men there was in Detroit and the most influential
there was Zack Chandler, said to me, 'Wrengell, if I
had warning that I was going to die to-morrow, I'd will
my property to you and write you a note telling you how
I wanted it divided. I'd be sure you wouldn't keep a
cent.' But I was beat when Bill Weeks swore he met me
on the stairs in my house the night the things was stole.
I knew that settled it, and I might as well throw up the
sponge. I'd helped Bill to get the position he had as
clerk, and pushed him along every way I could. He was
intimate with my folks. The day I was arrested, it was
raining. He spent his money as fast as he earned it and
was hard up. He come and wanted to borrow my rubber
coat. I didn't think but what he was all right, and I said,
'Go right upstairs and get it yourself, Bill.' He must
have left the things up there then.

"The jury brought in a verdict of guilty. The judge
didn't believe I took the things, but he had to sentence
me, according to the evidence. He was in tears when he
done it. Chandler, he was mad. He said it was the
biggest outrage he ever heard of. He worked a long
time, trying to get a pardon from the governor. When
he couldn't make it out, he told him it would be his last
term and so it was. Lots of folks wonder how the governor
come to be defeated in the convention. Old Zack
can tell 'em, and so can I."

"I have forgotten my letter," said John. "I must go
back."

"That's bad, to have to make two trips," said Wrengell.
"You haven't heard from your father lately, Johnny?"

"No," was John's brief answer.

"Neither have I," said Wrengell, "not for some years.
Between you and me, I'm afraid Archie got into a bad
scrape in Minnesota. I'm afraid he did. They proved
it right up. I wouldn't tell anybody else so, but this is
in the family. Your mother never comes to see you?"

"No," said John.

"She was peculiar," remarked Wrengell, after they had
walked two blocks in silence. "I don't say as there was
anything bad about her, only she was peculiar. She
would drink hard. I think maybe that was what got her
into trouble. When she was under the influence of
liquor, she didn't think how wrong it was to take what
didn't belong to her."

Imagine the sensations of John while he was listening
to the protracted account of his family from one of its
members. How long must he be tied to this man, whose
tongue was an incessant torture.
