CHAPTER XXX.
THE BEGINNING OF MYSTERY.

An unusual number of patients were gathered around
some object of interest in the men's ward, which ordinarily
was well-nigh deserted in the middle of the day.
As John drew near the group, but one voice was
distinguishable and that was speaking as follows:

"There was a man out in Lenawee had a bunch on his
neck like that, only it was on the left side instead of the
right. He'd been here, and he'd been to one of these
traveling doctors that tucks his advertisements and his
pictures in the papers. Get help? Of course he didn't
get any help. Then, after he'd tried everything else, I
sold him a bottle of panacea. I told him to put it on
three days and then leave it off three days. The first
three days the bunch got soft. The next three days it
commenced to go away. When he put on the medicine,
it softened it up, but it wouldn't start to go away until he
quit putting it on. Just as soon as he quit, it would go
down a little, and after three days it would get hard again.
There was something strange about that. He kept on
that way a month, and his neck was cured, and it never
bothered him again. The next time I saw him he was
practicing lifting things with his teeth. He had a leather
fastened to a barrel of cider, and he'd churn the barrel
up and down. He talked of practicing up to go with a
show. I didn't hear, though, whether he did or not."

"I don't give a continental for the strengthening part,"
said the New Yorker. "All I care about is to take the
bunch off."

"That's what this will do," said Panicky, for it was
indeed he. "Helloa!" he exclaimed, as he espied John
moving away on his crutches. "I'd like to see you a
minute. Will you wait till I get through talking with this
man?"

"Yes," responded John, who had intended to slip from
the hospital unobserved.

"I'll be through here directly," said Panicky, "now,
if this don't give perfect satisfaction, you can bring it
back."

"You seem to be in very bad shape," observed
Panicky, to a man who was blowing his nose.

"Yes," answered the patient, "I'm in bad shape.
I've got the catarrh, and I guess I always will have it."

"Oh no, you won't," answered Panicky, "not if you
doctor it right. Three weeks is all I ask to cure that in."

"Three weeks," echoed the sufferer, "you're wild.
You're just talking to sell."

"I'll tell you why I think so," said Panicky, "and after
I've explained it, you'll think as I do. The panacea
reduces unnatural growths. That is what it is designed
expressly for. Now, I wouldn't advise that man with the
scrofula to use it, for it wouldn't help him a bit. This
is on the same principle as taking off a swelling, you see,
bringing the blood-vessels down to their normal size and
destroying inflammation and clearing the nasal passages."

"Oh, I don't hardly think it would help me," said the
man with the catarrh.

"I've cured eleven cases of catarrh this summer,"
assured Panicky. "Now, I'll tell you what I'll do. If you
get sick of your bargain, I'll take the medicine back any
time."

"That's fair enough," said the patient after a sneeze.
"I'll take a bottle, but I don't have much hope that it
will help me."

"Come along this way," said Panicky, grabbing his
satchels and hurrying to John. "I see a doctor coming,"
he explained as they left the hospital. "If he should see
me in there and know what I was doing, he wouldn't like
it. These doctors act as though nobody knew any
medicine but themselves. They caught me in there once,
and they made an awful fuss. Now, I come down here
on purpose after you, I thought I might as well sell a little
medicine while I was here."

"What do you want of me?" asked John, instantly
thinking of his experience at Break o' Day.

"I can't explain it," said Panicky. "I was sent by a
certain person to bring you if you'd come, and to pay all
your expenses."

"Who is the person?" asked John.

"That I can't tell you," said the peddler. "all I can
say is, that it is something of great importance to you, and
that, if I was in your place, I wouldn't miss it for money."

"I will go," said John, as his mind reverted to the
elder Wrengell.

"Then get what you've got to get, and let's be out of
this," said Panicky.

John went back into the hospital and packed a few
articles of clothing in a bundle, which he put inside the
stand by his bed. The letter to Manie he placed in his
pocket.

"You ain't going away are you. Johnny?" asked
Wrengell.

"Yes," answered John, "I think I shall."

"Where are you thinking of going?"

"I do not know," answered John.

"I don't believe I'd go," advised Wrengell with the
solemnity of a prophet.

John, unheeding the remonstrance, hobbled toward the
door.

"Johnny," said Wrengell, following after him, "there's
something I want to tell you. There's a fortune in England
for the Wrengells. Now, you've got the education,
and you can look it up. You're the hope of the family.
I'll see you again and tell you all I know about it. You'll
look it up, won't you?"

"Perhaps," said John.

"If you get a chance, go and see Dan," said Wrengell
as they were passing through the long hall. "Poor
fellow, his freedom was swore away. As likely a boy as
ever lived."

"Don't waste much time," said Panicky, when the
twain had slowly emerged from the hospital. "Time is
precious."

"Johnny!" exclaimed Wrengell, as if a valuable idea
had suddenly seized him. "I'll go with you. I've become
attached to you, and I'm certain you have to me.
My eyes are about well, any way."

"I do not think it advisable for you to go," said John.

"I can't see any hurt in it," said Wrengell. "It's been
years since I've seen you."

"We don't want you," said Panicky bluntly. "A man
of any sense won't urge his company after it's declined."

"Good-bye, Johnny," said Wrengell, with an evil look
at the peddler, which intensified John's dislike of him.
"Don't forget your uncle."

John and Panicky had gone but a short distance when
they were stopped by a call from behind; and turning,
they beheld the man from New York and the victim of
catarrh walking hurriedly toward them.

"They won't let us keep these bottles," said the catarrhal
sufferer, who always spoke with a mournful intonation.

"How can they help themselves?" said Panicky.
"This is a free country. Buy what you want and tell
other folks it's none of their business."

"But," explained the patient, "they won't give me any
medicine if I take this."

"You don't want any of their medicine," said Panicky
vehemently. "They can't help you."

"You'll have to take this back as you said you would,"
firmly declared the New Yorker. "You can't dodge
that."

"I don't want to dodge it," replied Panicky. "I always
keep my agreement about everything."

"And I'll return mine, too," said the man with the
catarrh.

"I hope you'll recover speedily, gentlemen," remarked
the peddler, putting the bottles into his pocket and
starting off with his satchels.

"Hold on there, you low-lived smouse," cried the
indignant New Yorker, "where's my money?"

"I don't keep any account of your finances," said Panicky,
again halting. "What money do you mean?"

"Now, this isn't according to the agreement," said the
catarrhal victim in the manner when he might have employed
to pronounce a funeral oration. "You said we
could return the medicine when we wanted to."

"And I kept my agreement," responded the vendor of
medicine. "You returned them, and I took them back
like a man."

"It don't seem to me as though that's hardly right,"
said the man with the catarrh in an aggrieved tone.

For a moment the New Yorker was speechless. Then
the veins stood out alongside the bunch on his neck and
he cried, "Oh, you whelp. If you wasn't right here in
the city, I'd smash you fine."

"We expected you would refund the money," said the
catarrhal sufferer.

"Now, that would be unreasonable," returned Panicky,
"unless there was such an understanding. I said I would
take them back, and that's what I've done. I wouldn't
wonder if you'd better keep your medicine. It may save
your lives," he added, placing the bottles on the
side-walk and leaving his dissatisfied customers.

There was a clink of broken glass. The New Yorker
had dyed the paving-stones with Great American
Panacea.

"What a waste," remarked Panicky to John. "That
might have preserved a human life that just as like as
not will be lost now. How lame that horse is. I wonder
what is the matter with him?"

Panicky joined John immediately after his repulse by
the teamster. His strides were so rapid that his crippled
companion was soon left in the rear. "Can't you let out
a notch or two?" he said. "We ought to be getting
around."

"We could get along faster if we took a more even
pace," returned John. "We walk five minutes and stop
fifty."

"That can't be helped," said Panicky. "I have got my
work to do for the good of my race, and it must be done.
Sun, calm, wind, rain, snow or hail, I must travel and give
help to the afflicted. When we stop I'll let you have a
bottle of the panacea for your foot. I don't like to see a
man limp that way."

"Where are you going to take me?" asked John.
"How can you expect me to follow you around when you
will not give me the least satisfaction as to what you want
of me?"

"Do just as you like about coming," said Panicky.
"All I've got to say to you is, if I was in your place, I
wouldn't stay away for all the money there is in Ann
Arbor. You'll know when you get there. Don't ask me
any more questions unless it's fun for you, because I
won't answer them."

"It is a very hard thing which you ask," said John,
"but I will do as you say. I have a letter to mail at the
post-office."

"Come down to the Central depot," said Panicky,
handing John a dollar. "Here's something to pay for
your ride. I'll go down there now, for I've got business."

After mailing the letter to Manie, John rode to the depot
in a hack. The untiring peddler was talking earnestly
to a laboring man, who wore a woolen shirt traversed
horizontally by alternate stripes of red and squares of red
and gray. He sought his customers, John noticed, among
the farming and laboring classes, rather than among the
rich and aristocratic. He lingered a moment after the
arrival of the train, trying to sell a bottle of the panacea
to a man who had a cow which had the garget. When he and
John were on their way to the westward, he seized every
chance to prosecute his business. His attempts to dispose
of his wares were made in the absence of the conductor.
There was no disease for which he had not a specific, and
of which he had not seen and cured a counterpart, differing
from it only in location or in being more serious.

John's interest in the route was less intense than when
he was going to Ann Arbor. At Barton Junction Manie's
friend, Miss Holmes, entered the car in which John was
seated. She looked curiously at him, but probably out
of consideration for him, did not speak.

Panicky was provokingly reticent to John and voluble
to others while they were waiting at Jackson. He would
answer no questions, but finally ordered that his charge,
who he evidently thought was a necessary encumbrance,
should accompany him to the Jackson, Lansing and Saginaw
depot.

From this place to the journey's end John hardly looked
out of his car window.

"Come on, young man," said Panicky, as they stopped
at Lansing.

The surroundings of the depot were far from pleasing.
Before it was a willow swamp, which long lumber piles
and a manufactory made of brick, which a high, smoke-
blackened chimney, did not hide. The richest part of the
city, whose roofs and steeples alone were visible, lay to
the westward.

Small groups of citizens stood in front of the
passenger-house. A pair of trucks with "Phoenix Mills" labeled
on the box was passing alongside the railroad track through
a cut. From a car on a side-track a good-natured looking
man was loading stove-wood into a wagon with a high box,
on which was inscribed the name of the commodity which
it was designed to carry. A wheeze from the old horse
by which the wagon was drawn instantly brought Panicky
to the spot.

"How do you do," said the peddler. "Bad cough that
horse has."

"Yes," answered the teamster, without stopping his
work an instant. "He's got the heaves."

"I know what will fix that in a hurry," said Panicky.
"Cobb's Concentrated Carbolic Cough Killer will kill any
cough that a horse ever had."

"I don't hardly think I'll buy to-day," said the teamster,
as if he disliked to wound the feelings of the patent
medicine man.

"If you use it once, you'll never be without it," said the
peddler. "Coughs, wheezing, running at the nose, colds,
animal influenza, distemper, heaves, none of them can
stand before the cough killer."

"It seems to me my brother got some of that for his
boss," said the teamster, still throwing the wood into the
wagon.

"Then you've found out it's a grand thing," said Panicky.
"Didn't it kill the cough?"

"Well, no, not exactly," returned the teamster, straightening
up. "Killed the boss, though."

"Very lamentable, very," remarked Panicky, as he
grabbed his satchels and started southward along the
railroad track, followed by John. He had gone but a few rods
when he riveted his gaze on a robust appearing fellow who
was going toward the main part of the city.

"Must we stop again?" asked John. "Take me to my
destination and then sell as much medicine as you like."

"Young man," replied the peddler severely, "you are
too narrow-minded. You think the world was made for
you and your petty concerns. You must broaden out and
get sympathy for humanity."

The track ran through a piece of high ground which
descended to the west. The hillside at the east, covered
with scraggy brush, stood out in bold relief; but the view
at the right was limited, because of its swift descent to the
hidden river and the low elevation of the track. Scattered
along on the small rises of ground which overlooked the
stream, were diminutive cottages, of which a few were
painted. Before one of these little buildings a smooth-faced
old man wearing a Scotch cap was bent low, cutting
stove-wood with a dull buck-saw.

"That's hard business," remarked Panicky.

"There ain't nothin' easy about it," said the wood-sawyer,
suspending his work.

"Don't you sometimes get tired?"

"Yes, real. Sometimes I'm purty near played. I used
to be so I could stand it tol'able well, but late years I
ain't so full o' besum."

"I noticed that before I got anywhere near you."

"You talk as if you knowed!" exclaimed the old man
in astonishment.

"I do. You can't fool me much about a man. Don't
your back ache some?"

"Yes, yes," said the wood-sawyer, his wonder increasing.

"And when you stoop over, it's a good deal worse;
and if you stoop over long, you can't stand it and have to
straighten up, and then it'll get better for a while. But in
the morning, the day after you've worked hard, it's worse
than it is any other time."

"No," answered the peddler, "I know more about it
than a doctor."

"Do you think it's anything particular?"

"Yes, it's deficient vigor in the back. Muscles lax,
spinal column imperfectly sustained.' It will keep getting
worse and worse until it finally downs you."

"Danged if I ain't a gittin' worried," said the old man,
letting go of his buck-saw. "Don't you s'pose I'll ever
cure it?"

"It ain't at all likely," returned Panicky. "You'll probably
be a cripple and linger along for some years. But
you mustn't be discouraged. You ought to be ready to
die when your time comes."

"I know I orto be ready. But the lingerin', I don't
like that 'ere. What 'ud you do for this back bizness if
it was on you?"

"I should cure it, if it was on me."

"I thought you said there wa'n't no cure for it."

"Oh, no, I thought you'd be apt to let it run until
there wasn't any hope for you."

"What 'ud you take for it, anyhow?"

"I should take Great American Panacea and cure it in
three weeks."

"Where could a feller git a bottle o' that 'ere stuff?"

"I've got a bottle I'll sell you for a dollar if you want
it."

"Oh, you're a sellin' of it," exclaimed the old man, a
light suddenly breaking in on his dull understanding, "I
don't believe I want none. Times is hard with me."

"You better take a bottle. Mister," urged Panicky.

"You'll never regret it. I knew a man out in Oakland
County-----"

"I don't want none," said the old man with decision.

"I've been thinking," said Panicky, "if Professor
Domnoroff's Elixir of Mercy wouldn't be the thing for
you."

"What kind o' stuff is that?" inquired the old man.

"Grand." answered Panicky, opening a satchel and
drawing out a thin bottle of colorless liquid. "It's
Spanish medicine, got up by the smartest man there is in
all Spain. There you see the directions are in Spanish
and English, too."

"I don't want none on it," said the old man.

"Just as like as not, the trouble is in your kidneys,"
remarked Panicky. " Your complexion looks like it. For
kidney disorders there never was anything could hold a
candle to Wakefield's Honey of Mullein and Sage."

"I ain't a-hankerin' to take no mullein nor sage," said
the old man. "My mother she give me sage tea when I
was a little chap, till I got clean degusted with it. I
smoked mullein, tryin' to give up tobaccer, an' I ain't
crazy for mullein no more. I won't buy no medicine
to-day."

"I know what will cure you," exclaimed the peddler.
"You need a bottle of Great Wangamyika Discovery."

"Now, I wouldn't wonder an there was suthin' in that,"
said the old man, impressed by the peculiar orthography
of the name.

"It's a great thing," said Panicky, "and no mistake.
There was an African chief, he was a great fellow to fight,
and he'd always fight with a club. Once, when he was
having a battle with another tribe, he got a lick in the
back that about used him up. He couldn't run and he
couldn't swing his war-club. That was what bothered
him the worst. Every morning he'd get up and see if he
couldn't fetch the war-club around, but it wasn't any use.
His enemies commenced to press him on every side, and
as he couldn't fight, of course his men got whipped.
This kept up quite a while, and at last he didn't have
much of any territory left. He said if he could only get
out himself and fight he could drive them back in short
order. He got all the big medicine men in his kingdom
to prescribe for him, but his back grew worse, instead of
better. By and by he lost his patience entirely, and he
said if they didn't relieve him inside of six months, off
would go their heads.

"That set 'em to thinking. They come together and
consulted. The first thing they done was to take some
slaves and lame 'em, as near as they could like the chief.
One of 'em practiced up till he could hit the right kind of
a wallop every time. The slaves they'd squirm around
and yell, but nobody would pay any attention to 'em.

The medicine men they fussed and fussed till they got
discouraged. They'd think a patient was on the gain,
when he'd up and die. They'd try five kinds of medicine,
and six, and eight, and twelve. They'd try half of one
kind and a twentieth of the rest, and a tenth of three or
four and different parts of a lot of others.

"About two weeks before the time was up, one of the
slaves got well. They fixed the chief up a few doses of
the same stuff, and he was swinging his war-club as well
as he ever did. He got so he could throw it in a curve
around one of his men and hit an enemy. His back
grew so stout that he didn't like a light club any more.
He had a heavy one made that nobody else could fetch
around in any kind of shape. There never was another
such a fellow to shake a war-club in Africa. A week after
he was cured he went out against the Maleovajaws, beat
'em and took their king prisoner. He let the medicine
men practice up on the prisoners, hitting 'em in the back
and curing 'em. He give 'em directions that they should
never let anybody know the secret of the medicine. One
of 'em did, though, told a missionary when he was dying.
The missionary thought folks in this country ought to have
it. He went all over Africa to gather the herbs, and sent
'em here. He named it Great Wangamyika discovery."

"This 'ere Great Wanagam cured the chief purty quick,
did it?" inquired the old man.

"Yes," answered Panicky, "very quick. There seems
to be something about it that's specially good for the back.
Affinity they call it for the spinal cord and the vertebrae."

"I'll have a bottle if it busts me," said the old man.
"Hand it over."

Panicky instructed his customer how to use the medicine.
He must rub it in thoroughly, half of the time
stroking downward and half crosswise.

John and his companion soon came in sight of the
river; and after crossing the railroad bridge, turned to the
right and followed the stream, leaving it, however, when
they had reached the next street which led to the left.
The houses were here better, and the view in general was
correspondingly improved.

"How much farther have we to go?" asked John.

"We're about there now," said Panicky, "that house
right ahead."

It was a noble-looking structure which had been indicated
by the peddler. Whether the walls were of stone
or of brick, John, who knew little of architecture, could
not determine. An upright and a wing, on a rise of
ground too gradual and low to be called a hill, it was,
saving its preponderance of length,

    "A tower of strength that stood four square.
    To all the winds that blew."

One of the most efficient aids in giving it an aspect of
majesty was its simplicity. The ornaments which decorate
most costly buildings were poorly represented in
this edifice. In front of it were evergreens, small and far
apart. A path and a drive ran from the street through
the yard, the drive-winding carelessly up, as if its course
had been fixed by unassisted and unrestrained circumstance.
As they opened the gate before the path, a man
came out into the porch, stood a brief space of time, and
answered some questions which were addressed to him
from within. In the twilight, which was fast settling,
John could see nothing of him but the outline of his form.

"I'm going back," said Panicky hurriedly. "You can
find your way. Go up there and knock."

The man in the porch walked swiftly out to meet John.
When he left the shadow of the house, his identity was
no longer doubtful; he was Durgenson.

"Helloa, Wrengell," he said. "So you've come here,
have you?"

"Did you not send for me?" asked John.

"Certainly." responded Durgenson. "But I'm awful
busy just now. You go to number one hundred and nine
------ Street. Tell the man you want to stay all night. I'll
be up there in from one to three hours. Don't go out in the
street, because I'm in a hurry and want to find you there
when I come. I mean business. I'll make your fortune."

"Is that all you want of me," asked John in disappointment,
"to buy cattle and horses? I thought you had
found something which would give me respectability."

"So I have," said Durgenson. "So I have. I'll satisfy
you on that point to-night. I can't explain now. I'm
in a great hurry."

A woman rushed from the porch and interrupted John
in his departure.

"Stop," she cried. "I want to see you."
"Maybe you'd better go in," said Durgenson.

The woman led John through a hall, through another
room and into a smaller apartment, in which she left
him.

"Stay here a moment," she said, locking the door as
she went.

On ordinary occasions John would have been quick to
rebel against a curtailment of his liberty, but he was now
so anxious to hear the expected revelation that he
submitted with good grace.

"This way," said the woman, again peering into the
room.

John, with his expectations aroused to the highest pitch,
went up a flight of stairs and into a small room as his
guide indicated.

"Wait here until I call for you," said the woman, turning
the key in the lock.

The house was still, and the room, lighted only by one
window, was comparatively dark. As time passed curiosity
gave place to loneliness, and loneliness to unrest.

John's dissatisfaction with his quarters increased. Mrs.
Boyle's neglected warning to avoid Durgenson, coupled
with the suspicious conduct of the woman who had conducted
him to the chamber, intensified his sense of insecurity.

While he was deliberating whether to cry out and demand
release, or to attempt an escape from the window,
there came from below a voice, which, low but resonant,
filled him with a singular awe.

"Has the Suebian come?"
