CHAPTER XXXI.
AWAKENING.

Ratke was in no great pain, physical or mental, as Manie
led him from the scene of the fire. The repeated blows
which he had received had deadened sensation, and he
had neither concern for the present nor anxiety for the
future. At intervals he passed his palm across his brow,
generally repeating the act before he dropped his hand.

His face and hands were blistered in places, and his
hair adhered to his head in singed clusters, his eyes
were inflamed, and the lashes burned nearly off.

"You are badly burned. Uncle James," said Manie,
who was crying. "How it must hurt you."

"No," answered the major, "I am past suffering. All
that can hurt me is thinking. Sluggishness has come to
my relieve. Do not make me talk or think."

Jake Sheppard's house was a small, one story building,
which lay between the church and the Ratke farm. Back
of it was a log stable, and east of it a diminutive shop in
which its previous owner, a blacksmith, had worked.
When it was reached by the Ratkes, some chairs were already

[nh 293]

???94 1'li^

"I will," r
Daggett r
Grippin to fi
ing toward tl
"I'm afraid
"He is los
anything tha
talk right to

'???' Boys," s:
who were in
woods. I'll
sell nie a tr&
Daggett pi
proceeded at
smouldering

"Thiswor
"We can bu
can of her, tl

The men
their neglect
to say, I he n
He pulled ai
that Daggeti
obliged lo d???

"You cho
saw with yoi.

Archer sn
tree, where h'
chopped thei

"What's I
said Jake.

Philetus s
the site of B
he reached ;
ashes and br
pull. A pac

"Git out <
after, the m.
startled Tak



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' .



296 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK C DA Y.

ranted cutting of the timber was discovered. As the fall
of the tree did not frighten the coon from his refuge, Jake
cut into the body, which in that place was but a shell.
He was both surprised and chagrined when the ax struck
a metallic substance which took from it a deep nick.

"What blamed fool has been a-stuffin' an auger in
here?" he exclaimed, pulling the designated tool from
its place of secretion. His astonishment increased as he
drew out some clothes and, lastly, a long pocket-book,
which, upon examination, he saw contained a large roll of
bills. He thought at once of the robbery in July, and, for-
getting the coon, started for Mrs. Green's house. Owing
to the deafness of Mrs. Green and the timidity of William
Henry Harrison, who never quite recovered from his ter-
ror of the midnight visitor by whom his master had been
slain, Sheppard was some time in securing an answer to
his knocks and calls. Mrs. Green, however, was at last
aroused by the half-wit, who broke the fastening to her
bedroom door and entered her room for protection, Jake
went to her window, made known his errand, and was ad-
mitted to the house. The only reward which he received
from the widow was forgiveness for his depredation in
her timber. Shortly after this event he called at the cot-
tage by .the church and left an envelope directed to the
major. The envelope contained fifty dollars in currency
and a badly spelled note which stated that Sheppard was
going away from the neighborhood and begged that Ratke
would accept the money as a token of regard.

The major rallied in part from the stupor which chained
him in the few days succeeding (he lire. He made an
auction, and sold his personal property. When Taylor was
taken away by a Jackson horseman, who bought him for
four hundred dollars, Ratke with sadness watched the
handsome animal, trotting behind the owner's sulky as he
was led up the road. He paid first his hired men, with
the exception of Sheppard, who could not be found. The
remainder of his money he distributed among his credi-
tors, who were numerous. Most of them were content to
allow him lime for his fortunes to mend, but a few gave
warning that, unless payment was speedily made, they
would cause him trouble. This insulting language re-



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' D7i V.



298 THE CHRONICLES OF BKEAA' O' DA Y.

tion, but her ruse was unavailing. He did not noiice
them until they were alluded to by his sister, when he
picked them up, apparently without interest, and threw
them down with a sigh.

Manie, although she was obliged to do all the wprk in
the family of Osborne, who had seven children and one
hired man, on being informed of her uncle's dangerous
apathy came home every night and returned in the
morning. Ratke showed the first pleasure which he
had exhibited for weeks. No matter how tired he was,
when he had finished his toil for the day, he walked up
the road to meet her. His object was not to talk, nor
did it seem to be to hear her, for he wa.s an indifferent
listener. Satisfied with her presence, he desired no ex-
change of words. His instinct to be near her was like
that of the d<^ which silently follows Jiis master, or that
of the dying horse which, when turned loose that he may
have room to struggle, totters back to breathe his last in
his familiar stall. Vears before, he had told her stories
while she had sat on his knee and combed his hair.
Now he had childishly asked her to do again as she had
done then. She humored his whim, and it was seldom
that he had to remind her of his wish.

Mrs. Green, who wailed until after seeding to thresh
her grain, one day dispatched William- Henry Harrison
to secure Ratke's assistance. The next morning the
major with his pitchfork appeared early at the house of
his old enemy. He was given a place on the bundle
stack, but through the intervention of his friend, Jim
Turner, he was allowed the easy duty of holding bags.
At noon Jim was obliged to leave on account of a
previous promise which he had made to Osborne.

William Henry Harrison, Sparks and Wingscheut w.re
on the straw-stack. Throughout the forenoon the half-
wit had worked by the carrier, in the language of Wings-
cheut, "vith his mouth vite open ketchin, all te chaff."
After dinner the maior noticed the poor fellow toilinc



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK o'Day. 299

"Come down here, William Henry Harrison," called
Ratke, " I will ciiange with you. You can hold bags."

The major took the position which had been occupied
by the half-wit, who slid down the stack and was buried
in the litterings at the bottom, from which he soon
emerged. Sparks motioned to the feeder, with whom, on
the night of the expedition to Wallace's, the major had
quarreled over the disposition of the horse-thieves in
case they were captured. The driver, in turn, received
the signal from the feeder, the horses bent their heads
and tugged, the machine sang more loudly, and every
man about it bestirred himself anew. The straw rolled
in great masses up the carrier, to the head of which a
suffocating cloud of dust was borne by the wind.

The major, whose temper and dignity were aroused,
stood at his post, too proud to ask for relief. The straw
gathered in a wall behind him, and Wingscheut lazily or
purposely let it fall back, so that he was obliged to
pitch back large quantities of it the second time. At
each one of the huge forkfuls which he had to take his
body trembled, and he wondered how much longer he
could endure the strain. Most of the hands were busily
occupied, and those who were not bestowed little sympathy
on the old man in his weakness so heroically and piti-
fully trying to keep up an appearance of strength. He
was at the point of exhaustion, when the threshing was
finished and the machine suspended motion. Without
waiting for his supper or his coat and vest, which, of course,
he had stripped off, he went away from the barn-yard,
his breathing difficult, his eyes blinded and his face
blackened with dirt.

"Guess Jerusalem got about enough," said the Oakville
man, loud enough for Ratke to hear, " I ain't sorry
neither. It ain't any worse for him to work than it is for
me."

"This ain't makin' wagons," remarked Sparks.

The words rankled deep in the majors breast, as with



3O0 THE CHROXICLES OF BREAK Cf DA V.

but now, removed from his defenses, he could not en-
dure it.

Mrs. Gnppin had gone to visit Mrs. Boyle, with whom
she expected to stay that night. Manie, who had finished
her work for Osborne, received her uncle with expressions
of pity. She brought some wafer and washed the dirt
from his face and neck. While she was combing the chafE
from his hair, a constable came to serve a summons on
him in behalf of the Empire Machine Company.

"The completion of disgrace," said Ratke, after the
man had gone. " I cannot pay them. Judgment will be
rendered against me, and 1 must have it thrown in my
teeth that my promises are lies. How much more ! Oh,
God, how much more can I endure I "

"Let me comb the chaff from your hair," said Manie.

"No," answered the major, taking his hat and going
out of the house. He went straight to the little black-
smith shop and stood before it. The sun, now a reddish
ball, stripped of its fiery spikes, seemed lying in a slight
depression of the landscape, as if it had rolled thither
from one of the declivities between which it rested. Its
latest rays were permitted to fall on Ratke by the parting
of a strip of cloud, which was drawn asunder like curtains
on a stage. The major's gaze rested longest on the build-
ings which had been erected on his former farm. The
windows of the house threw back among the apple trees,
by which it was partly hidden, the rays of the sun, whose
splendid reflections glimmered like wondrous lanterns
among the branches. From Green's woods, which were
red and yellow in the cloak of fall, came the voice of
William Henry Harrison, who was calling the cows. A
night-hawk swept high over the major's head, carry-
ing its mournful cry over his desolated and rebuilded
homestead.

He opened the door of the shop and entered. Inside
were a few tools which had been left by ibe blacksmith
who had previously owned the lot. These were a work-
bench, an anvil, two saw-horses and two hammers. The
blacksmith evidently had worked some in wood ; and, in
fact, such was the case, for he had been exorbitant in his
charges, and his trade afforded him but a meager sub-



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y. 301

sistence. On the workbench was Ratke's one-man saw,
which was badly rusted. Taking a hammer, the major
loosened the saw-blade from the frame and fastened it
with a strap to a strong hickory pole, the upper part of
which he nailed firmly to the wall. He tied a small rope
to the other end of the saw and pulling it until the stiff
pole bent far back, he made it fast to a ring in the opposite
wall, leaving the saw stretched horizontally within about
two feet of the- floor. His next movement was to place
nearly under the saw a saw-horse on which he rested his
head so that his throat was within a few inches of the
sharp saw-teeth. Satisfied that the arrangements for
suicide were complete, he arose to take his farewell of
terrestrial things.

Once more he stepped out into the cool evening air.
The sun had disappeared, and its light had ceased to tint
the clouds along the western horizon, but it was reflected
from the stray patches which were moving slowly near the

"Ah," he said, " the cloud at the horizon is as red as
the one at the zenith. It does not appear so to me, be-
cause I am not in a proper position to see its brilliancy.
If the light of merit has fallen on me and my inven-
lions, the world has not been in a situation to recognize
it."

To no purpose had his philcsophy been neglected ; at



302 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

of which were a fitting preliminary to the approaching
tragedy. In the morning, or, perhaps, that night, they
would find him with his throat hacked and, it might be,
entirely cut in twain. He crawled under the saw and
rested his head on the saw-horse. He raised a scythe to
strike a blow which would allow the hickory spring to pull
the saw across his throat.

Some one jerked him back, tipping over the saw-horse.
Manie's arms were about his neck, her face close to his,
her soothing voice in his ear. After pulling him gently
away she struck the rope with the scythe. The vicious
force with which the spring propelled the saw showed
how deadly an implement of destruction the major had
planned.

"What made you interrupt me ? " cried the major.
"The world has no use for James Ratke ! Wherever I
am, I*am in the way. I am refuse in the economy of
Nature, refuse which her creatures abhor, but which she
will not remove. I will remove myself ! Go away,
Manie ! Go away, I tell you ! "

"Uncle James, Uncle James," pleaded Manie, " do not
act so ! Come into the house."

"You, too, have become my enemy," said Ratke. " No
friend of mine would like to prolong my wretched existence.
I thought that I had suffered until I had no further capacity
for suffering, but sensation only slept. It racks me now
as it racked me before my mind fell into torpidity, when
I sat on the log watching my burning wagon. Oh, Manie I
Must I, must I fall into that stupor again \ Must I, my
God ! Must I see my mind, like my fortunes, waste away,
leaving me a wreck and a wretch indeed ? "

"Trust in God," said Manie. " He can rescue you
from any trouble."

"God ! " echoed the major, " God has deserted me
utterly ; utterly, utterly," he added with an accent of in-
cescribable despair. " Where is my farm on which I prided
myself ? Where are my horses and cattle ? Where are
my books, which were my study and my comfort ? Where
are my inventions, which I would have given my life to
save ? Where is Trace, the trusted son of my comrade,
whom I loved better than myself? His mutilated body




Ti



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK (T DA Y. 303

is in that graveyard I He died in destroying my all ! li
I could forget ! If I only could 1 ' The waters'are come
in unto my soul.' "

"Come in," said Manie, pulling him toward the door.

The major went passively to the house, where Manie
induced him to be seated. " ' The Lord will not cast off
forever,' " she said, " ' but, though he cause grief yet will
he have compassion, according to the multitude of his
mercies.' "

"You talk of consolation," replied Ratke, rising from
his chair and striding restlessly about the room. " There
is no consolation for me. ' The sorrows of death compass
me.' I will not take my wretched life to-night, because I
could take only the bodily part. I would I could place
those saw teeth against my soul ! I would annihilate my-
self, for I could meet annihilation firmly. This old body
I can bring to the grave, but I cannot touch the after
life. No. I must keep this sensation, sensation which
gives me no pleasure, only pain, eternal pain, I am like
an old harp which was once an instrument of melody, but
which now yields the harshest of sounds. Mirth, pleasure,
rest, they are for me neither now nor in eternity ! "

"You have no reason to be so hopeless," said Manie. 
"God has promised to help those who trust in Him.
' Whoso hearkeneth unto Me shall dwell safely and shaW
be quiet from fear of evil.'

"' He hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of
the afflicted, neither hath He hid his face from him. But
when he cried unto Him, He heard.' "

"What have I rendered unto Him in my prosperity,"
said Jialke, " that He should help me now ? I never open-
ly acknowledged Him, When wealth and friends were
mine, I depended on my own resources with little solici-
tude for God's assistance. I said, ' I will get wisdom ; '
and that wisdom I worshipped. Now, when all my per-
secutors have overtaken me between the straights, he has
left me to be extricated by my wisdom."

"You have fulfilled part of the Lord's requirements,"
said Manie. " ' Is not this the fast that I have chosen, to
loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens
and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every



304 '^f^E CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

yoke ? Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and that
thou bririg the poor that are cast out to thy house, when
thou seest the naked that thou cover him ? ' "

"It was not enough," answered the major, " or I should
have support in this hour. He laughs at my calamity.
'He hath thrown down and hath not pitied.' 'He hath
made me desolate and faint all the day.' I might call,
but he would not answer. Oh, Manie, how can I live?
' My heart is like wax ! '"

"You will feel better to-morrow," said Manie. " When
I am teaching school, we shall have more money. We
will pay up these little debts, and how much comfort we
will take, reading our books and studying together. We
will get some tools In the shop for you. Uncle James,
and you can work at your inventions as you used to
do."

"I shall never know comfort again," said Ratke. " Is
it nothing to lose one's entire possessions, to see perishing
what one prizes more than property, to see wealth, posi-
tion, friendships, aspirations, all shivered in succession,
and the ruins heaped in ashes on one's head ? My
neighbors who have given me financial help laugh
 at me. They sneer at my Jerusalem wagon and crack
jokes about my one-man saw. I cannot endure it. I
shall die or go insane. ' The pains of hell have got hold
upon me.' "

"' The sorrows of hell compassed me about,' " said
Manie. " ' The snares of death prevented me. In my
distress I called on the Lord and my cry came before him,
even unto his ears.'"

"My sighs are many, and my heart is faint," said the
major. " There is anguish in reflection. Lure me into
forgetfulness by song, Manie."

"Shall I sing one which John composed ? " asked
Manie.

"Anything," answered Ratke. " Sit close by me."

The room was quite dark, for Manie had not yet lighted
a lamp. She seated herself by Ratke, who had ceased
his violent pacino" of the floor. The scene through
which sAe Aac? Oacsed put a tremulous pathos into her
vojce. fi^-'



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y. j

"A minstrel sang often Euterpa's gay song

Where the board of the feast was outspread,
Where the floor of the hall 'neath a great courtly throng

Bent and swayed to the dancers' light tread.
Sweet notes which were welcomed, applauded and famed

Came from the musicians' skilled art.
Their melody all except pleasure disclaimed ;
It mixed with the revel where mirth was untamed,

But it touched not a comfortless hearL

' Hts fame and his fortune all perished away.

Those who in his prosperous days
Were loudest in flattery scoffed at his lay.

And hushed was their liberal praise.
He thought of his laurels, whose life was so brief,

In his gloomy and utter despair
No hand was extended to give him relief.
' My burden,' he faltered, in accents of grief,

' Is greater than I can bear.'

"He bowed low his head and he threw down his tyre

In a hall where its music had rung.
He felt that forever had left him that fire

With which in his youth he had sung.
Oh, deep was the anguish that swept ever him then

When no solace his broken heart propped ;
He mused on his trouble, remote from all men;
But mournfully from its mute corner again

He picked up the lyre he had dropped.

"Out on the wide world the sad measure was borne,
And the healing of pain was its goal.
It came from a bosom by misery torn ;



And men from the shades of their crimes were beguiled ;
' Lord, now it is plMn,' said the minstrel, a child ;
' I know why Thou chastenest me.' "

"Comb my hair, Manie," said the major. " Sit on my
knee and comb my hair. Let me think that these are the
olden days, that you are a little girl, that I have not lost
my place, that I still have hope for my inventions. Oh,
this is luxury ! What a soothing power there is in the
comb."

Manie, who was crying under cover of the darkness,
tenderly combed and brushed his hair.



3o6



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK o'Day.
