CHAPTER XXXIII.

THE HOUSE DIVIDED AGAINST ITSELF.

Of the obsequies of Senator Mallard it is necessary to
say little. They were conducted with imposing ceremonies
and attended by many of his associates in the
Senate.

After the funeral Mrs. Boyle returned to her home.
The question of heirship was some time in being
satisfactorily settled. Durgenson's wife, who, as has been
stated, was Mallard's niece, would not recognize John's
right to the property. She and her husband lived in one
part of the house, and John and Mrs. Baldwin in another.

"I tell you," said Mrs. Baldwin to John one day, "we
want to look out for Durgenson. He is anxious to get
you out of his way and has been ever since you were born.
That night when you were at Mrs. Boyle's, I believe, just
as much as I believe anything, that he meant to kill you
when you went to look at the horse."

"How could he harm us?" asked John.

"By putting poison in the water we drink, or in our
food," replied Mrs. Baldwin. "I tell you, John, we had
better not stay in the same house with them. You don't
know anything about him. He is so treacherous. You
remember how he tried to get you away from us. I haven't
the least doubt that he meant to lure you to some
out-of-the-way place and kill you. One house is not large
enough for that family and us."

"What are we to do until the estate is settled?" asked
John.

"Get them out of the house, or go ourselves," answered
Mrs. Baldwin.

"How can we do that?" inquired John.

"If we cannot eject them by legal process, let us leave,"
said Mrs. Baldwin.

"Ma'am," said the servant-girl, appearing in some
excitement, "Mrs. Durgenson told me not to dust the parlor,
but to keep right out, because her girl would attend to
that."

"Which parlor?" asked Mrs. Baldwin.

"The south one," answered the servant. "I ain't been
in the north one."

"You see," said Mrs. Baldwin, "she is getting very bold.
She commenced it the day of the funeral."

"I will go in with you," said John, "and we will dust
that room."

While John was dusting the furniture, he heard the
querulous voice of Mrs. Durgenson, saying, "I don't mean
to have them much longer in my house. Durgenson, if
you had the proper spirit, you'd tell them to go. You
wonder they like to stay. You're as good as pie to them
all the time."

"There isn't any use in being cranky," said Durgenson.
"You'll never make anything by that. I can't get
them out without the law and we'd better wait a little."

"Now, Durgenson, you do take things so easy,"
continued the whining voice. "It ain't pleasant to have folks
you don't like in your own house. You could tell 'em to
go, and, if they don't go, put 'em out. You could throw
that Wrengell out, couldn't you?"

"Why, yes," replied Durgenson. "As to that, I could
throw him out. I'd risk that, but there'd be an after-clap.
He'd have be arrested for assault and battery right
straight. I'll manage it by and by in a better way."

"How do you mean?"

"Never you mind, Maggie. I'll attend to that. It
isn't policy to use violence."

John had been with Mrs Baldwin in the sitting-room
but a short time when the servant reappeared.

"Ma'am, the clothes is gone from the north bedroom."

"Why, that is Mr. Durgenson's part of the house," said
Mrs. Baldwin.

"No," said the servant, "your north bedroom where
you sleep."

"Can you not find them?" asked Mrs. Baldwin.

"No," replied the servant, "they ain't nowhere as I
can see."

"I will get some clothes of my own uptown," said
John. "It is as you say. Aunt Martha. We cannot live
long in the same house with the Durgenson family. They
will be robbing us of our cook-stove and our flour. How
did they happen to live here with you?"

"They came soon after your grandfather was hurt,"
said Mrs. Baldwin. " They said they wanted to help take
care of him. I knew they were looking after the property
they expected to get. George was not in his right mind,
and I could not turn them out, for Mrs. Durgenson was
more nearly related to him than I. So, you see, nothing
could be done. George did not fancy them, but, if he
expressed an opinion, who could prove that it was anything
but the raving of an insane man? They were not offensive
at first, and, indeed Mr. Durgenson has not been so any
of the time. But, as soon as George died, Mrs. Durgenson
began to show her disposition. None of George's
nephews are living, and she, being his only niece, has
always considered herself his heir. You can hardly
imagine how much your appearance has disappointed her
and pleased me. If my niece did die away from her
kindred and in poverty, my grand-nephew is restored to me,
and, I trust, will be to his rights."

"Ma'am," said the servant-girl as she again opened the
door, "all the carpet upstairs is gone, and somebody's
took every wash-bowl and pitcher and the looking-glasses
and one of the mattresses and all the clothes on the beds.

"I will tell Durgenson to put a stop to that," said John.
"I will stand it no longer."

When he inquired for Durgenson, the wife of that
gentleman informed him that her husband had gone uptown.

"When will he be back?" asked John.

"I can't tell anything about it," replied Mrs. Durgenson,
rolling her head to one side in a wearied manner. "I don't
always ask him how long he's going to stay."

The read-headed servant-girl, who was sweeping, rolled
a cloud of dust into John's face and looked cunningly at
her mistress, whose countenance expressed approval of
the act. John shifted his position and said, "I would

[nh]

320 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA V.

like to see him as soon as he comes. In the mean time
you will please leave the household articles in their present
places until the settlement of the estate."

Mrs. Durgenson again tipped her head to one side, this
time in defiance. The servant once more turned her
broom toward John, and, suppressing a giggle, sent the
dirt flying about him in profusion.

"Oh," thought John, " we have met before."

"Oblige me by telling Mr. Durgenson of ray visit," he
said, " and inform him that I would like to see him at the
earliest opportunity."

"I ain't used to being a servant," said Mrs. Durgen-
son. " You'll have to see him yourself. Jule, there's
some dirt in that corner."

"Yes," said Julia Wallace, filling the air with floating
particles, which she energetically directed for John's
inhalation.

"Good-morning," said John, passing through the door.

Mrs. Durgenson and her servant exchanged glances
and tittered, and, when John had gone a few steps, burst
into loud laughter.

"The idea," said Mrs. Durgenson, purposely elevating
her tone so. that it could be heard by her late visitor, " of
a man of his birth telling me what to do with my prop-
erty that my uncle left me."

The ill-feeling between the two households was shared
by the servant-girls, and by them less repressed than by
their employers. Usually servants have the human
aversion to doing unnecessary work, but in this case the
general rule was inapplicable. Both Julia and Mrs. Bald-
win's Ellen were anxious to have .the care of as large a
share of the house as possible. The south parlor, the
hall and the library were the most frequent occasions of
rivalry. At the beginning of the war the girl who entered
the room first was allowed undisputed possession until
the renovation was completed. This tacit agreement
stimulated each hurriedly to wash the morning dishes in
order first to reach the contested field. Gradually they
rose earlier. By Mrs. Durgenson's permission Julia,
leaving her breakfast dishes unwashed, " stole a march "
on the hated Ellen. Next morning the enterprising Ellen,



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O" DA V. 32 1

resolved not to be beaten, swept the room before another
individual in the house was astir. Slurs, innuendoes and
directly personal remarks began to be used frequently by
both parties.

Although Ellen had a considerable amount of fighting
Irish blood, she was not as aggressive as Julia, who
seemed bent on precipitating a quarrel. The encroach-
ments on the rights of John and Mrs. Baldwin by Wal-
lace's proraising daughter, who, in truth, had more spirit
than her father or her brother, were annoying in the ex-
treme. She came to Ellen's kitchen and helped herself



322 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA K

'* 1*11 know it about next week," retorted Julia, bobbing
her head furiously and approaching Ellen, who backed
away with the kettle. " There ain't any Mr. Lehmann
here. That's John Wrengell, and he's a nobody. He
stole a horse and got chased out of Break o'Day. He
come to see me once. I told him to keep right away, for
I I wouldn't have anything to do with him, -- the scurf o'

the earth. Fd like to claw him."
' " I don't believe it," returned Ellen. " He wouldn't

look at you, nor the likes of you, you great freckled thing.
You've stole everything you could get your hands on, and
I I know you'd lie, too."

I " You miserable Irish amount-to-nothing," cried Julia,

advancing toward her, " you want to shut right up. Hand
I me that kettle in a hurry."

"What is all this about ? " asked Mrs. Baldwin, coming
to the relief of the frightened Ellen.

"She won't let me have that kettle," said Julia, " and
I'm a-going to have it. I ain't got a big kettle that fits
my cook-stove."

"We cannot spare that kettle," said Mrs. Baldwin.
"You must get along the best way you can."

"I ain't afraid of you both," said Julia. " Hand that
kettle here."

"Get out of this kitchen, or I will have you arrested,"
said John, suddenly appearing. " You have taken
things enough. I warn you not to molest this part of
the house."

"Oh, you low-lived galoot," said Julia, as she took her


