CHAPTER XXXV.

STRAY LOCALS.

Of the six correspondents who contribute to the "Sharptown
Sun," an influential paper with a circulation of more
than 500 copies, I am by the editor considered second in
merit. He told me confidentially that, although perhaps
two of my brother scribes excel me in style, not one of
them has as keen an instinct for news as I. This indisputable
excellence in newspaper work, an excellence which
is shown by my connection with the Sun for three years,
induces me to arrange some of the latter part of this history
in the form of a correspondence.

Alf Boyle was killed while resisting the officers who
were sent to arrest him.

Mrs, Boyle, refusing to change her place of abode, continued
her ministrations from her home in the wood.
Sick people, needy children and her sabbath-school class
received her special attention.

Hiram B. Durgenson will not again defraud the farmers.
He was convicted of being accessory to the murder of
William Boyce, an Illinois farmer, and sentenced to the
Joliet prison, where, two years later, he died.

A watch was placed on Julia Wallace's movements. She
was observed to take water to the barn at night. Her
watchers, concealing themselves in the mow, saw her
open a trap-door covered with hay and descend to
the excavation which had been made in the spring.
With a lantern, which they procured after her departure,
they explored the underground stable. At first they
thought they had discovered the recently-stolen horse, but
a nearer approach showed them that this one was light,
and the one for which they were looking had been dark.
The next day, summoning a crowd, they returned to the
barn. The victim of the late theft said that in size and
form this animal was exactly like his Prince, but Prince
was not of a dirty mouse color. A peculiar whinny and a
pawing of the beast for grain settled his doubt at once.
He was quite certain that the lost was found. In the
stable where a huge rubber blanket, some bottles and
papers containing chemicals, and a kettle in which some
substance had been burned. The riddle was laid before
some doctors and druggists, who declared it to be their
belief that the horse had been covered with the rubber
blanket, the chemicals burned under him and his color
changed by the imprisoned smoke. A jury decided that
Wallace and Ab were guilty of horse-stealing, but Julia
was allowed to go unmolested.

Nora's grief over the fate of Montcalm, though sincere,
was not of very great duration. In one of her visits to
her Michigan relatives she met Fred Loomis, whose
attentions she received and whom she subsequently wedded.

Ratke's men, who believed they had contributed to his
great disaster, which was now repaired, worked with
tolerable faithfulness, but Brown and Archer would
occasionally shirk duty. The major's churn, to the astonishment
of every one except the philosopher, proved a success.
Its proceeds enabled him to repay John for the liquidation
of the mortgage, an act which, in the face of the most
vehement protests, he insisted on performing.

An evangelist came to Break o'Day, and Philetus
Takum was converted. Philetus remained a devotee of
his faith, until Lyman Sparks procured a superior breed
of cochins with immense thighs and full breasts, when he
yielded to the tempter. He was one of those who received
the word on stony ground.
