of the spokes, and maybe three. It's a good thing they
went just as they did. If they hadn't, one of them would
have got a lead pill."

"Ab," cried Julia, "quit looking over my hand, or your
ears'Il catch a warmin'."

"Shut up," growled Wallace, his looks betraying an
admiration which the severity of his language did not imply.
"That's a girl such as you don't often see, Montcalm.
She's helped Ab an' me a good deal. She's worked out for
almost every one. She understands about the houses and
barns and horses, and how late the folks say up. That
comes real handy."

"You bet I can help," put in the masculine Julia. "If
anybody where I worked got up to watch pa and Ab, I'd
rattle things around in the house so they could hear.
Clubs is trumps, Trace. Ab, you look out or you'll get
your chops slapped."

"You have engaged in a very profitable business, Mr.
Wallace," said Montcalm.

"You can't tell me anything about the business," said
Wallace." The time I went on the raid over in Eaton I
just got away with my life. They caught the horse and
just missed me. The first thing after I go into it again,
my house is stoned and my property destroyed. Oh, I've
had experience enough."

"This venture is likely to be more profitable," asserted
Montcalm. "You have already received twenty dollars."

"I've earned it too," replied Wallace. "Hacking away
at them tamaracks and wading out to get to 'em ain't any
fun. I noticed you didn't do much of it. It was small
pay I got."

"It was better than raising wheat at a dollar a bushel,"
said Montcalm.

"No one but fools will grow wheat," returned Wallace.
"I can get it easier from barns than from the ground. I
won't have my ribs smashed by plow-handles to raise
provender for some bloated bondholder. The capitalists
have got it all their own way, and they wouldn't give a
cent to keep us from standing to death. The laboring
man has got to look out for himself. The rich ones
won't look out for him. You can take five bushels of
wheat from three or four bins, and it won't be noticed,
but when you take a horse, there's an everlasting
pow-wow."

"You can get your provisions that way," said Montcalm,
"but you will want money for other things."

"Yes, Pa," cried Julia. "And I want some dresses
and rings, and you promised me a breastpin."

"Oh, yes, you want," grumbled Wallace --- "you want a
good deal, but you won't get it. Montcalm, hadn't you
better pay me for them jugs of cider that you had me
take to Jimmy and old John? That's worth thirty cents
a gallon -- sixty cents."

"All right," answered Montcalm, as he felt in his pocket
for some silver. "It is right that you should have it."

Presently Montcalm arose and stated his intention to
leave.

"Not yet," said Julia, "not till you play another game
of euchre. Pa and Ab are ahead of us now,"

"It is impossible for me to stay longer," replied Montcalm.

"Now, we'll see," said Julia. "If I don't let you go, it
ain't impossible."

"You must excuse me this time," said Montcalm.

"No, you don't," cried the unfeminine Julia, making a
spring toward him and throwing her arms about him as he
moved to the door.

"Smack him, Jule," said Wallace, and the daughter
obeyed.

Montcalm, feeling very foolish and thinking that for
once his flattery had brought him not the most pleasant
results, writhed from her grasp and fled from tlie house.

"You'll come again, will you?" demanded Julia.

"Yes, I certainly shall," answered Montcalm.

"When?" asked Julia --- "next Sunday night? "

"I cannot promise," said Montcalm. "I will come as
soon as possible."

"If you don't come then, there'll be a racket," said
Julia; and with this warning she shut the door.

"That'll make a fine woman for somebody," said 
Wallace. "Wouldn't she be the boss for a night-raider?"

"Perhaps," said Montcalm, "if he wished to get married.
Ab, go up and see how Jimmy and old John get
along, while I take a turn through the swamp."

Montcalm, as he had expected, found Archer wrapped
in the shelter of some bushes, oblivious to hi
surroundings. His visit to Takum convinced him that he need
have no fears concerning the faithfulness of that subordinate.

"Oh, Mr. Montcalm," whispered Philetus, "I ought to
tell you somethin'. Will you be mad if I talk?"

By no means," answered Montcalm. "Talk on. Phleet."

"There's some one a-gittin' ready to muckle us," said
Philetus. "I heard 'em a-talkin' together down yonder,
an' they went in the tamaracks."

"I will go and see," said Montcalm.

His trip was far from satisfactory. There remained not
one of the hired men who had been stationed along the
road. He refrained from relating his discovery to the
Wallaces, who, he feared, might be intimidated by the
revelation.

"They're as quiet as they can be," remarked Ab, as the
three men met." That whisky and cider together laid
'em right out."

"We must hurry," said Montcalm." We have no time
to lose."

They took an angling course toward the swamp. When
they reached the tamaracks they commenced to remove
the sharpened trees in the manner which had so surprised
Philetus. This road was shorter than the one which led
to the hiding-place of the animals from the opposite side.
It extended to an open strip, in the center of which ran
the creek, whose banks were overflowed. A distance below
was a boat which reached nearly across the stream.
The men got into the boat. Montcalm pushed once with
the paddle, and they stopped on the opposite shore.
Twenty minutes later and they were untying the stolen
Billy and Madge T.

The horses, apparently willing to leave the loneliness of
their retreat for a common equine habitation, gave little
trouble until they came to the creek, where they snorted
and stood with their feet braced, yielding only to the 
persuasion of some long whips.

 The creek crossed, they were led out, both at once, by
the three men. Wallace suggested that Ab should
rearrange the newly cut path while he and Montcalm
attended to the stolen beasts, but the more prudent
superior would not consider the proposition. With his own
hands he replaced most of the trees and moved others
which the Wallaces did not place to suit him. He scat-
tered brush and fallen trees plentifully along the route,
not, he said, so much for the purpose of covering the
signs of travel as of inducing the searchers to keep away
from the disguised road by going around the obstacles.

"Maybe you're in love with this work, but I ain't," said
Wallace, as, after leaving the tamaracks, he was tramping
through the water, which reached above his boot tops.
"This is fun. I suppose about to-morrow night the
crowd'll come along and tear down my bam and burn my
shanty over my head."

"We have no expectation of getting caught," replied
Montcalm, expressing a confidence which he did not feel.
"We had better go as silently as we can. Probably we
and the guards are the only ones in the neighborhood
who are astir, but it is best to use caution."

Had Montcalm acquainted the Wallaces with the facts
communicated by Takum he might have been in his 
extremity deserted by his help, whose selfishness would
have allowed no consideration for him to endanger their safety
or that of their property. For this reason he encouraged
them and quieted their fears, using tactics exactly opposite
to those which he employed in the management of
Philetus.

"Ah," said Wallace, when they had arrived at his barn,
"go in and get that crank on the girt."

Ab soon returned, bringing a crank and an iron bar to
which was attached a short chain. Wallace took the bar
and inserted one end of it in a comer of the barn, while
the other protruded through a post which was set near.
In front of the barn was a long stack of hay, which ap-
peared to rest on the ground. Montcalm in the mean time
had laid down some straight, smoothly hewn rails, thus
forming a tramway between the post and the end of the
stack. Raising some locks of the dried marsh grass, he
fastened an end of a short rope to either side of a car
which supported the stack. Then he joined the short
ropes to a longer one, which he connected with the chain
by a hook, and next he set the crank on an iron bar.
Montcalm and Wallace turned the handle of this 
contrivance, when the stack trundled slowly forward and
stopped within a few feet of the post.

"There," said Wallace. "That's all I'll turn. I won't
break my back over a crank."

The removal of the stack exposed to view a pit which
had been dug underneath the barn. So carefully
performed had been the work of excavation that, when the
entrance of the cellar was covered by the hay, its existence
would not have been suspected by one unacquainted with
the secret; and neither about the barnyard nor in sight
of it was visible a trace of the dirt, the transfer of which
must have occupied some weeks.

"That work was well done," observed Montcalm.

"Thanks and compliments is cheap," answered Wallace.
"I wish I had what pay I ought to have. I'll never work
so cheap again."

The horses did not fancy entering the underground
stable. The colt hung back, braced his feet, and was
induced to go in only by the use of the whip, or as Wallace
termed it, "the persuader."

The stack was pushed to its first position without the
help of a lever, as the ground ascended toward the post.

"You had better get into the house," observed Montcalm.
"You may be seen by some prowlers."

Montcalm visited the drunken guards from Break o'Day.
He shook them, broke their bottles and jugs and
complained bitterly of their neglect. While he was still
shaking and lecturing Martin, he heard a long-drawn yell,
which, as he instantly surmised, proceeded from Archer.
With many misgivings he sped toward the spot from which
the disturbance issued. Justice was on his track.
Takum's only guaranty of trustworthiness was his fear;
Wallace cared for self alone, and here was a new trouble,
which he could barely locate, much less define. In front
of Wallace's barn he met Archer, who was much excited.

"They've gone," said Archer. "They've got away with
the horses."

"How do you know?" asked Montcalm, with an apprehension
which he succeeded in hiding.

"Because I saw 'em," replied Archer," and I thought
I'd come up here and tell you."

Montcalm soon decided on his course of action. He
would tell the Wallaces of Archer's disclosure, and prepare,
when necessity demanded, to flee from the danger which
menaced him.

"Where did the horses go?" he inquired.

"Up the road," answered Archer.
"Up the road!" ejaculated Montcalm in astonishment.
"Yes," said Archer, "they come out of the old road in
the swamp where they used to haul fence-posts through."

Montcalm, relieved, though perplexed, left Archer on
his beat and went to the station of Philetus, which was
deserted. He called loudly, but two or three minutes
elapsed before a faint response came from the swamp.
Making his way through the tamaracks, which at that
point were large and comparatively far apart, he found
Takum, who was coming to meet him.

"Oh, Mr. Montcalm!" exclaimed Philetus, "somebody
got 'em and' they'll find us! We're gone up! Great
Augustus! I'm a goin' to Californy!"

"We are all right," consoled Montcalm. "Did you
not expect that I would get the horses? If I had not
taken them from the swamp, we would surely have
been found out."

"Was that all?" said Philetus. "I heard somebody
acomin' through that road, an' I thought they'd found
the horses. They raised a great hellaballoo an' run
up this way. I didn't think you'd make such a noise,
but it ain't none o' my bisness, an' I won't talk about it."

"Get back to your post," said Montcalm. "You must
let no one suspect that you were frightened."

In the road Montcalm discovered the horses' tracks,
and, following them along the highway, which was quite
deserted, he ascertained to his surprise that they led
to Ratke's barns.

As he was passing the club-house on the way to the
family dwelling, his attention was arrested by the sound
of voices and laughter, and as he stopped, he overheard
the words of Daggett, who was saying:

"Didn't we have a time of it waking him, though? I 
poked him with a pole two minutes before he give a
grunt. But he flew around lively enough after he did
get up."

By nine o'clock in the forenoon a body of men and boys,
to the number of two hundred, had assembled at Ratke's.
Carrying a variety of arms, including, rifles, shotguns,
revolvers, rusty swords and muskets with bayonets attached,
they proceeded in a body to the swamp, where they
separated in order to facilitate their search.

The old men stayed on the hard land, while the younger
portion of the crowd, among which were a few boys, struck
out boldly for the tamaracks. But their ardor, as well as
their persons, was dampened by the water, which for the
greater part of the year encircled the great swamp, and
against which, at that time, the highest rubber boots were
an imperfect protection. The water poured over the 
boottops of the men. The brush scratched the bare legs of
the boys, who had rolled up their trousers. All were
annoyed by the bushes, which in many places were so thick
that vision was limited to a distance of a few feet. One
by one, wet, tired and discouraged, the searchers returned
to the up-land, asserting that a horse would not venture
where they had been, and that no one but old Ratke would
have imagined the thing. With their zeal for the capture
of the thieves considerably lessened, they returned to their
homes, disgusted with their own folly in being drawn into
any scheme projected by the inventor of the New Jerusalem.

Jimmy Martin and old John Davis boasted of how they
secured the liquor in spite of Montcalm's precautions.
This was an incident of the hunt at which the people
laughed heartily, and Montcalm was glad to be subjected
to ridicule instead of suspicion.



CHAPTER X.
TWO KINDS OF BUD BLOSSOM.

The author whose ambition is that of the rural historian
will not attempt scientifically to analyze the causes
which led to the circumstances herein to be described.

To the reader it may seem improbable, but certain it is
that John Wrengell was received with more favor by the
Ratkes. The traditions which might have thrown light
upon the subject were imperfectly kept. Brown, Thompson
and Daggett, excellent authorities on farm-life and the
hunt after the horse-thieves, forgot those trifling incidents,
of which reminiscences would have assisted us in our
speculation.

John and Manie began to be better acquainted.

Wrengell's manners and habits were undergoing a
change, whether for the better is a question on which the
student and the man of fashion would differ. He was
entering the period which at some age is reached by most
men, the epoch of the anxiety to improve the personal
attractions. Had he possessed an opportunity he would
have been tempted to barter a part of his hard-earned
learning for a more perfect understanding of proprieties.
At the church he saw Fred Loomis, and envied him his
style. Dr. Rorus' clerk was not brilliant. Indeed, he
seemed to be an automatic, imitative body, wound up for
life without the troublesome complication of a brain. His
walk was unmistakably that of the young man who is assured
of his gentility, and his hat was tipped at exactly
the right angle to be fashionable.

John, before going to Oakville to purchase a suit of
clothes, took observations of Loomis' apparel. The
dress suit, his first extravagance, was praised by the
clothier as a perfect fit. John did not mistrust that the
trousers were too short, or that the loose coat hung in
wrinkles about his shoulders.

The Sunday morning after the important purchase he
took extraordinary pains with his attire. But the clothes
brush was filled with the lint of the club-house, and the
blacking-brush, which had been used on greasy boots,
would not impart to bis shoes a perfect shine.

He was before the mirror, trying to smooth down an
obstinate lock of hair, when Daggett thus addressed him:

"Fix it up nice, John. I would if I was in your place.
If you go in the parlor now, you'll find her alone. She's
singing, and all the rest of them are in the sitting-room."

John determined to make a terrible rejoinder, but before
he prepared it, he was assaulted by Brown and
Thompson, and he was unable to reply to them all. For
the purpose of escaping the notice of his fellows he went
to the orchard, and walked around it in pretended abstraction
till he came to its western side. There, seated
on the fence, he chewed splinters from the rails and waited
for the keen-eyed Daggett to turn his attention elsewhere,
so that his arrival in front of the house might not be seen
by the fun-loving hired man. When this occupation became
monotonous, he slid from his position and started
across the orchard.

The warm May days had strewn verdure over the limbs
of the apple-trees. Leaves had pushed out, and buds had
developed to blossoms. Dressed in pink and white, the
blossoms, stirred by a strong wind, posed in different
attitudes, and at each ample swing cast off a portion of their
loveliness. A few rods ahead of John was Manie, standing
with her back toward him beneath a tree. About her,
as if in homage, were falling the dismembered blossoms.
As the wind lifted her hair and threw a shower of the
white leaves on her shoulders, he thought it would be no
misfortune, if he and she, like Una and the red-cross
knight, could be lost in a wood,

    "Whose lofty trees, yclad with summer's pride,
     Did spread so broad that Heaven's light did hide."

She Stretched her hand upward, trying to get possession
of a bough which was beyond her reach.

"Let me help you," said John, stepping quickly to her
side. "I will pull it down, and you can make the
selection you wish."

John purposely held the bough so high that, to reach it,
she was obliged to raise herself on tiptoe and remain very
close to him until the desired flowers were obtained.

"I wanted these," said Manie, "because they are fresher
than the others. These are just opened, while most of
them are ready to fall. What do you think of our apple
grove, Mr. Wrengell?"

"I think it is a kingly court," replied John, "in which
reigns an absolute monarch. The advent of summer
holds perfect sway over our fancy. Of all periods the
beginning of a progressive era is most interesting. When
a state or system has been established a considerable
length of time, it is no longer able to draw the strongest
admiration; but awakening life is never without its charms.
That line of woods is now in its richest beauty. There
can be nothing more picturesque than the spot where
that dark green tree is set diagonally in front of the less
deeply tinted background. As its fellows advance to the
same stage of development, the view will grow less 
attractive. The reign of this scene around us over human
sympathies is transitory, for those white petals are now
falling. In a few days the trees will be clad in simple
green, and in the autumn they must surrender their
authority and yield tribute to those whom they have ruled."

"The summer brings to the orchard little loss of
authority," said Manie. "You may prefer blossoms to
fruit, but Phleet Takum's little boys will not neglect yonder
tree when it is loaded with yellow pippins. There are
Seven of our hired men. Only one of them goes a rod
out of his way to look at leaves and flowers, but they will
all come trooping over here as soon as they are assured
that harvest-apples are ripe. How many of the farmers
stay in their orchards all day now? How many of them
will keep away from them when it is time to gather fruit?
You judge of an entire force by its application in one
place. It has not the universality which you claim or
imply that it possesses."

John was in a dilemma. He believed that he ought to
continue the argument in order to appear to advantage
before Manie. But he had learned that in a nervous
condition, such as he labored under at that moment, he was
certain to make statements which were fatal to his logic.
Furthermore, he might, under the influence of excitement,
utter some discourteous remark, which would nullify any
good impression which he might have made.

"Are you going to meeting to-day?" he asked as Manie
moved toward the house.

"I think so," answered Manie; "we usually go."

"Can I go too?" inquired John, while his shaking
fingers were picking at a blossom-covered apple-limb.

"Of course you can," answered Manie. "Who is to
prevent you? "

"But," persisted John, "can I go with you?"

"If there is room in the buggy you can," said Manie.
"Nora, Aunt Maria and I can sit behind, and perhaps
Uncle James will let you ride with him and Mr. Montcalm."

"No," exclaimed John in desperation, while a flush
overspread his face, "I mean will you go alone with me?"

"Oh!" said Manie, "that is a different matter. Yes, I
will go!'

John would have expressed his appreciation of the favor
which he was receiving, but he had not mastered gallantry,
and he was overwhelmed with a sense of his inefficiency
as an escort. That which he could not speak he could
act. Regard drew him near her, and the fear of repulse
drew him back, so that he walked in a zigzag line across
the orchard. He pushed aside branches of trees for her
to pass; and, coming to some bars, he threw down all of
them but the bottom one, which was caught at the end.
He was tugging away at the unyielding board when Manie
put an end to his strenuous efforts by stepping quickly
over it.

John left Manie at the house and hurriedly went to the
road. He did not dream of the ridicule he was preparing
for himself by his excited manner and walk.

The drive to church furnished him the keenest enjoyment
he had ever known. He was the escort of the most
cultured, the most esteemed lady of that community.
Samson-like, he was rending the bonds of his evil fortune
and bearing away the Gazan gate which shut him within the
city of disrepute. From the pit of degradation he raised 
his head above its mouth and viewed the hills of
respectability, the borders of which he hoped soon to cross.
He could think of nothing to say, and, indeed, he was too
happy to talk. The wind placed invigorating touches on his
face, and the wood to the south, with its thin light-colored
drapery and its flank of dark tamaracks, sent to him an
inspriation which found fellowship with his already awakened
feelings.

At the church he was unpleasantly reminded of his abstraction
by the discovery that he had driven too far from the platform
for Manie conveniently to alight. Wishing to atone for his
lack of skill by a show of agility, he endeavored to clear
the distance by a leap, but as his feet caught in the lines,
he was thrown on his hands and knees; and it was only by
very energetic and undignified scrambling that he escaped
falling to the ground. The boys and young men on the steps
contented themselves by exchanging a few knowing looks. When,
however, John had hitched his horse and awkwardly passed into
the church, they commented freely on his behavior.

After this Sunday Ratke's favor toward Wrengell began to wane
and Mrs. Grippin's began to increase. She admitted that John
was a very good musician. He sraped his feet before he came
into the house. He did not always wipe his hands in the
center of the towel. He was, moreover, careful about
disfiguring the butter-roll, and did not take more of the
butter than he wanted on his plate.

It was the time of May-baskets, and parties hanging these
souvenirs had been about the neighborhood at night.

John gathered some flowers from the swale which joined the
swamp. He tied them with a ribbon which he had bought for that
purpose, attached to them some poetry, hung them on the knob
of the front door, rapped and ran to the road. These were the
stanzas which Manie read:

    "We dwelt amid a marchy haunt,
        Where youthful oaks and elms bend low,
    Where shade meets sun, where breezes pant,
        Where plants their fellows' secret know,
    And laugh with joy and sympathize with woe.
    
    "Rude were the hands which bore us hence
        From that loved spot where we were born.
    The lofty tamarack laments,
        The grieving poplar quakes, forlorn,
        The grass blade bows its head to weaep at morn
        
    "Death to the exiled flowers must steal.
        Oh, let us not be spurned, but given
    Cold water ant this boon to feel,
        That we from home have not been driven,
        And on us falls the soothing rain of Heaven."



CHAPTER XI.
THE ROOT OF AN EVIL.

The summer was remarkably hot. July had arrived. The
great swamp which, except in August, was usually too wet
for a well-clad traveler to pass through with dry feet,
was almost ungirded of its water-belt.

Ratke and his sister were preparing to start for Sharptown.
The preceding sentence should be amended by the adition
that Mrs. Grippin was actively flying about, while the
major was conning a treatise of Lord Shaftesbury's.

"I'd like to know where you got the money to pay Green?",
said the housekeeper. "You hadn't ought to be afraid of
me. I'm not going to tattle about it. You've got secret
all to once, haven't you?"

"I believe in maintaining silence when the occasion demands
it," replied the major, " and it does in the present
instance."

"I don't care so much who you got the money of," said Mrs.
Grippin, "as what you had to do to get it. You said you
couldn't find it, and you'd hunted all over, and you didn't
tell me any different till the other day. I'm afraid you
had to do something desperate."

I found the money to pay Green," said Ratke. "Further than
that I can tell you nothing."

"James Ratke," said Mrs. Grippin, breaking into tears, "I
have slaved for you half life. I have looked to your
interests when you were careless of them. I have cooked for
your hired men and scrubbed floors till I have nearly broken
myself down. Look at my hands, James Ratke! They have been
crooked doing your washing and mending. I never wanted any
pay. I only wanted to know that you was getting along, and
that I could have a place to stay when I was so old I couldn't
work. And now, when the home is going, you won't even tell
me how long before I am turned out into the streets."

"We will not believe that we are going to lose the place,"
returned the major soothingly. "An honorable man holds
the claim against it. I did not mean to hurt your feelings,
Maria, or to manifest a lack of confidence in you. I
appreciate what you have done for me and I mean to repay
you, as far as I can, by making you comfortable in your
old age."

It was seldom that Mrs. Grippin was absent from the
farm. This rare occurrence was welcomed with rapture
by more than one whom it concerned. Archer was at
liberty to help himself to bread and butter, whenever he
chose. Brown and Thompson could have each two pieces
of pie without encountering a savage glance which
destroyed their appetites. Nora sat by Montcalm and talked
and laughed with him in a way which would have shocked
her proper aunt had that lady been present.

"Come in this way. Trace," she cried, rushing to the
parlor. "It's cool in here. Oh my! isn't this a nice
place? I'll shut the door," she said as Montcalm entered.
"Then they can't hear what we say. Oh, Trace,
we haven't had a chance to talk alone for a good while.
Aunt Maria does watch us so close. I'm glad she's gone.
It's the day Uncle James promised to pay Uncle Si, and
he's gone after the money. I tell you it's a lot of it. It's
over $14,000."

"I should think Mr. Green would be afraid to have
such a sum brought to his house," said Montcalm, "seeing
that there are thieves about."

"He had to have it brought here," explained Nora.
"It was to be paid in this house, and then he takes a good
deal of pains not to be robbed. He has the strongest
locks on his house, a lock on every door and a burglar
alarm besides."

"That is caution itself," said Montcalm. "It is not
often that a house has a lock on every door. Generally
some of them are bolted."

"Oh, yes," said Nora, "that is the way with Uncle Si's.
He fastens the cellar door with a hook. I remember
hooking that when I was a little girl. Then the hook was
higher than my head. Now it comes up just to my shoulders."

"You have forgotten," said Montcalm. "It lacks a trifle of
being as high as your shoulder."

"What do you know about it?" asked Nora. "You never were
there."

I know by intuition," said Montcalm. "Second sight, perhaps
you would call it."

"Oh, bother your second sight," returned Nora. "Don't try
to fool me in that way. Are you going away before long?"

"Perpaps," answered Montcalm. "I have thought of telling
the major that I can work for him no longer."

"And you'll send for me, as you said you would, when you
get the store started." So saying, Nora sat in his lap and
gave his collar a playful shake.

Moncalm looked down pityingly into her face. He had 
not at first meant to win her affections. Feeling his
power, he had determined to test it, and its exercise
had made her his slave. The lies which he had told her
were for the purpose of giving her temporary satisfaction,
but they had doubled the difficulty in disentangling
himself without giving her the pain which he dreaded
to inflict.

"Do not count too much on the store," said Moncalm.
"I am not now in the best of circumstances, and it may
be years before I can start in business."

"Why!" exclaimed Nora, a disappointed look creeping
across her face, "didn't you mean what you said?"

"Oh, yes," answered Montcalm, as he felt unable to
use the candor with which he had resolved to speak,
"we will go just as we have intended. But be patient."

"It wouldn't need so much to start a store in a little
village like Break o'Day," said Nora. "You say you've
got a few hundred. So have I. I've got one uncle and
an aunt that's well off. Right here are two checks,
Trace, " she said, coming from her bedroom with some
papers. "They are for $500. Take them now. I won't
want them. Aunt Emma gave me one and Ungle Si the
other. You see I can help, and I feel just like
helping to get along." 

"No, no," expostulated Montcalm, thoroughly despising
his own deceit. "I will not. I hope myself to earn the
money soon."

"Oh, yes, take them," urged Nora. "It don't make any
difference to me who has them, only I want to show you
that I won't be a hindrance to you."

"No, you will not," said Montcalm sorrowfully. "Keep
your money, Nora. By and by we can share our property
equally. But wait until we are married."

At the sound of the last word Nora's face lighted up,
and she pressed closer to him.

"When will that be. Trace?" she inquired. "We have
talked about it, but we have never set the time. Once in"
a while I think it never will be."

"We must not be impatient," replied Montcalm. "It
may be a year or two before I am ready to marry. If the
delay interferes with your happiness, I will release you
from your promise."

"You are tired of me," said Nora, her voice betraying
her disappointment. "I was afraid you would be. But I
won't beg for your favor if I die. I'll keep away from
you, and I won't bother you any more."

"What is my little girl thinking of?" asked the
miserable Montcalm, drawing her back to him. "Does she
imagine I am tired of her because I will not take her
money? I could not do that, Nora. I would hate myself
for such an act. We can wait awhile. Neither of us are
old. I will prepare a home for you, and then I want you.
We will be happy then."

"Oh, I hear Aunt Maria talking in the dining-room!"
exclaimed Nora. "She mustn't suspect that we've been
in here together. Quick, Trace, slip right out of this door.
I'll toss your hat out of the kitchen."

"You go in, Major," said Montcalm, as he neared
Ratke. "I will care for the team."

"You may if you like," answered the major. "I am
very hungry."

Mrs. Grippin suspected that many misdemeanors had
been committed during her absence. Nora should have
been taking care of the dishes instead of sitting in the parlor.
The men had not scraped their feet when they came into
the house, they had left the butter in bad shape, and some
of them had taken two pieces of pie.

"Don't be so long," said the housekeeper, as her
brother leisurely entered the house. "He'll be here in a
little while. You want to be ready to do business with
him when he comes."

"Precipitancy," replied the major, "is a common evil,
and I intend that it shall not ruin me. If you think twice
before you speak or act, you avoid many mistakes which
you would otherwise make."

"Yes," answered Mrs. Grippih, "but if you are always
thinking and never acting, it don't amount to much. I
wish you'd eat so I can get my work done up."

After dinner the major went to the bam to talk with
Montcalm.

"Come, Nora," said Mrs. Grppin. "Take hold and
clear up the table. You're not very tired. It don't
hurt you any more to work than it does me."

"Some one is at the door," said Manie.

"Come in," said the housekeeper, as she ushered their
expected guest into the parlor.

"Are the folks all well ?" asked Green, with a degree of
politeness to which he was unaccustomed.

"Well enough," returned Mrs. Grippin shortly. "James
will be in in a few minutes. You can make yourself
comfortable until he comes."

Partly obeying the directions of the housekeeper. Green
sat down, but he did not make himself comfortable. He
arose to his feet, and strode about the room in an oval
circuit, unconsciously following the same path through
each evolution. When this became monotonous, he resumed
his seat and tapped the floor alternately with his
heel and his toe. As the major entered the apartment,
he wsa again walking the floor.

"Why, Uncle Si," said Nora, following closely after
Ratke, "you haven't been here in a long time. Why
don't you ever come around?"

"Oh, I don't get around to visit much," returned Green.
"I have a good deal to do."

"I should think you have a good deal to do," said
Nora. "You never go anywhere only on business. If I
was worth so much as you, I'd call around after my
friends. You don't have so much leisure as lots of poor
folks."

"That's what makes 'em poor," returned Green.
"They have too much leisure."

"How much do I owe you?" inquired Ratke, with a
mixture of dignity and civility.

"Fourteen thousand five hundred and forty-two dollars
and ninety-two cents," answered Green.

"You are mistaken," said Ratke. "The amount is
fourteen thousand five hundred and forty-two dollars
forty-one cents, four and sixty-three hundredths mills."

"There ain't any mistake on my side," returned Green.
"Collins is as good a lawyer as there is in Jackson, and
he figured it."

"Mr. Collins may be good authority," Ratke rejoined;
"but the figures are better, and I will show them to you."

"Oh, I'm satisfied with Collins's work," said Green.
"He's always done my business, and he's always straight."

"No doubt you are satisfied," responded the major,
"because his mistake, if sanctioned by me, would put a
half dollar in your pocket. I oppose it, not for the
half-dollar, but for the principle which is involved."

"I'll take my mortgage and go home," said Green.
"If I can't get what belongs to me in one way, I will in
another."

"Maria," called the major, "you and Manie come here.
Here," he continued, addressing Green, "in the presence
of three witnesses, I offer you fourteen thousand five
hundred forty-two dollars, forty-one cents, four and
sixty-three hundredths mills, or, on account of the
difficulty in making change, fourteen thousand five
hundred forty-two dollars and forty-two cents."

"What is this about?" inquired Mrs. Grippin, looking
in turn from Ratke to Green.

"He wants to cheat me out of fifty-one cents," replied
Green. "I tell him I'll take the mortgage and go home
first."

The money-lender shrank back as he saw the change in
the aspect of Mrs. Grippin. Her form straightened, her
upper lip rose with an expression of ferocity, her long
fingers gripped together like the talons ot a destructive
bird.

"You, Josiah Green!" she said slowly. "You talk of
cheating, you that never did anything but cheat!"

"Oh, Maria," expostulated the major, "remember he is
a guest in our house. We must not disgrace ourselves by
treating him with discourtesy."

"You can't run me, James Ratke," retorted the angry
woman, "if you do run the rest of the town. 'Tend to
your own business, and I'll 'tend to mine. You bought a
cow of him. Si Green, when you couldn't get trusted 
anywhere else. You got money to help you with the mortgage 
on your place, and you cheated him out of it. You got
wheat of him when your family was sick, and you said
they'd starve if they didn't have help. Do you remember
you came here and said you'd like to get a few pounds of
butter, and you'd pay for it the next week.' You've never
said a word to me about that butter from that day to this.
Now I want you to settle that account."

"I won't bother about the half dollar. Major," said
Green. "Have it as you want it."

"Very well," said Ratke, "here is the full amount."

"When do you intend to pay me for that butter?" asked
Mrs. Grippin, as Green was retreating to the road. "Si
Green, you get up in church and speak, and say you are
glad you chose the better way. What better way do you
mean.' A better way to smouse folks is the only way
you've chose since I've known you. That's all the lingo
you've got, and you can't make up another. I sit where I
can see you in meeting. If you don't pay me for that
butter, I'll look you right in the face as you speak. Then
say you've chose the better way if you can."

"How much is it?" asked Green, turning suddenly
about.

"There was four pounds and a half of the butter,"
answered Mrs. Grippin, "and it was twenty cents a pound.
That would he ninety cents. I'll call it six shillings."

"Here," said Green feeling that he deserved credit for
generosity, "here is a dollar. That makes us square."

Fearing that Mrs. Grippin would make another demand,
the penurious farmer hastened to the road, untied his
horse by a few quick, nervous jerks and drove rapidly
away.

Ten minutes afterward, in response to the call of a
neighbor, Ratke went out to the gate and received a
letter, the body of which, written by Durgenson, is
subjoined:

"I dislike to speak about the sum I lent you. but the
trouble is I am hard-pushed. I have got to have $4,000
the 24th of this month. After that I will get along two
or three hears without any more. Have it ready for me
the afternoon of the 23rd, when I will come to your
house."



CHAPTER XII.
THE WELL WITH A BARREL CURB.

Again at the dead of night Montcalm climbed from his
bedroom window. Carrying a large bundle, he passed
down the shaded walk and was soon on the route
previously traversed by him and Takum. The sheep in
the woods fled, as before, at his approach.

He came presently to a pond the dimensions of which
had manifestly shrunk during the hot weather, for a dry,
barren circle marked where its edge had been. He untied
his bundle, spread its contents on the ground and threw
off his coat and vest, for which he substituted a thick,
padded jacket which gave him a robust appearance.
When to this disguise he added a mask from which
straggled a sandy beard, no one would have recognized in
the ruffianly looking figure the genteel Montcalm.

In the capacious hollow of an oak the adventurer stored
the clothing which he had removed, and with his lightened
bundle again proceeded on his way. Ere he reached the
lane which led to the barns of Green, he deviated from his
former route. Turning to the right, he emerged from the
wood exactly in front of, though at a considerable distance
from, the church. In a few minutes he was stalking along
the edge of the graveyard, and a brief walk took him
to a large wood pile which was close to the house of the
money-lender.

The premises had an aspect, not of thriftlessness, but
of carelessness for everything unconnected with finance.
The barns which sheltered the stock were well and neatly
built. The house which harbored the family was paintless
and old, the clapboards were loose, and some of the bricks
had fallen from one chimney. It consisted of an upright
and a long, low wing which lapped beyond the taller part
of the dwelling. Montcalm was before the overlapping
part and close to the outside cellar stairs. On the 
backstoop were a swill-barrel, three swill-pails, some
hoes and rakes and a rickety table made of a long box,
on which sat pans and kettles. Whatever was useful merely
in pleasing the eye or fancy was unnoticed by Green.
Whatever added to his wealth received from him studious
attention.
