suddenly by a warning bolt made him give heed to its
proximity.

No matter in which direction he turned, he could not
find a way out of the perplexing difficulty. Schemes
which were his hope, his very life, demanded money for
their furtherance. His produce was sold, his pocket-book
empty, his credit gone. He realized his situation; and, in
the distance, he felt he saw, approaching, calamities which
would destroy his dearest projects and involve in ruin
himself and his household.

Mrs. Grippin interrupted these miserable reflections by
saying,

"He's in here, William Henry Harrison, if you want to
see him!"

The visitor was William Henry Harrison Hibbard,
whose first three names had been given him at his birth,
applied in sport during his boyhood, and used through
habit when he had reached man's estate. William Henry
Harrison had fits; and these fits had reduced his mind,
if not to imbecility, to a state of intelligence considerably
below mediocrity. The spring before, the Republicans
of Jefferson township had, for want of better amusement,
nominated him for constable; and the Democrats had so
far fallen in with the joke that, though they had a large
majority, the half-wit was elected.

William Henry Harrison was tall and slender, his mouth
was large, and his hair was light The most conspicuous
part of his raiment was a long, loose ducking jacket which
was belted tightly about the waist, and whose lower edges
flared out from his body like an umbrella top. As this
was his most expensive article of clothing, and as he never
wore it except on important occasions, it was by the local
wits called his official coat.

"Well, William Henry Harrison," inquired the major,
"do you have a great deal to do as constable?"

"No, not 'nawful sight," answered William Henry
Harrison.

"That was a fine run you made last spring," observed
Ratke. "I believe you beat Johnny Hemp?"

"Yes, I lick 'im. I run 'way 'head."

"Did you ever arrest anybody or serve a summons? "
inquired Ratke.

"Dono, guess not," replied the half-wit.

"Probably not," said the major, half to himself. "In
the machine of law you are a pinion, whirled by the belts
and pulleys of courts, which are, in turn, propelled by the
engine of legislation. But you are satisfied with your
condition, and that is more than can be said of many who
think themselves your superiors. Content, as you are, with
your lot, you may as well be a pinion as an engine."

"Yes," remarked William Henry Harrison, "engine
might bust."

"By George!" exclaimed the major, "but there is wisdom
in that. The solid iron pinion can be broken only
by external forces, while the hollow engine may, itself,
generate the power by which it is rent. Likewise, the
humble mind escapes those internal conflicts which bring
ruin to some of the mightier intellects. William Henry
Harrison, that, is the wisest remark I have heard in a
month."

Upon this unusual compliment, the author of the saying
so highly praised grinned, covered his mouth with his
hand and looked steadily at Ratke for some minutes.

The major, tiring of the half-wit's scrutiny, had recourse
to a stratagem which seldom fails to remind a forgetful
guest of the object of his visit.

"Let me take your hat," he said.

"No," replied William Henry Harrison, taking his hand
from his mouth. "I no stay, Misser Green, he git mad."

"So you stay with Green yet," observed Ratke.

"Yes," answered the half-wit; "Misser Green, he git
me new straw hat I give you this paper."

"Oh, it is a paper you are serving on me!" exclaimed
Ratke. "Make Green give you your regular fee, and tell
him that constables are not obliged to take straw hats in
payment for the performance of legal duties."

The document proved to be a summons which had been
issued by Justice Lyman Sparks, in behalf of Josiah Green,
who had purchased a note due the Buckeye Manufacturing
Co. of Marlboro, Ohio.

"Go back to Josiah Green," said the major, "and tell
him that you performed your errand. Tell him that I
bound up his financial wounds when the priest and the
Levite passed him by. Tell him I lent him money when
his place was mortgaged for its full value, and no one else
would trust him. Tell him he owes me yet for a cow and
wheat which I let him have when his family was sick."

"I can't 'member so much," said William Henry Harrison,
alarmed at Ratke's vehemence. "Misser Green he whip.
Oh! whip big."

"Halt," ordered the major, as the unique constable
moved toward the door. "You have been a faithful
officer and you have earned your supper. You must eat
with me. Instead of making Green mad, it will please
him to think he is relieved from the expense of feeding
you. Maria rang the saw before you served the summons."

"But," said the half-wit, "I can't 'member that you say
when mad."

"You need not try to remember it," was the major's
answer." You could do so if you could once comprehend
it, for you have no doubt a preponderance of memory
over the reflectives. Your mind is not brilliant, and,
when by accident you stumble upon a sensible expression,
it shines as forcibly as a bolt of lightning from the
darkened sky at midnight. Do you understand what I say ?"

"No," answered William Henry Harrison.

"It is as well that you do not," commented Ratke. "I
would rather you would not understand all I say, because
I want to talk, and I do not wish to hurt your feelings.
Now, I will tell you something which you can understand,
William Henry Harrison. To-day you have been a
smarter man than I have."

William Henry Harrison was so pleased with Ratke's
approbation that, at supper, he endeavored to obtain more
of it by delivering some witty speeches. Disappointed in
receiving encouragement to continue his remarks, he allowed
his own appreciation of his sagacity to be visible
in several prolonged grins, the last of which was frozen
by one of Mrs. Grippin's frowns.

After the meal, as he stood irresolutely in the sittingroom,
he remarked, "I have fit purty soon. I tell."

"I will tell Trace to hitch up a horse and take you
home," said Ratke, hastily passing to the dining-room.

The major, returning, found William Henry Harrison
on the floor, with his limbs alternately contracting and
expanding to their utmost capacity. The half-wit's eyes
were rolled back, his face contorted, his figure writhing
and twisting and his lips covered with froth. On the
floor about him were the fragments of a large mirror,
which had cut his hands in several places.

When William Henry Harrison had finished his first
and last official visit, Ratke observed, "The Buckeye
Company agreed to wait a year for that note. I wonder
that so careful a man as Green should send such an officer
as William Henry Harrison."

"You needn't wonder," returned Mrs. Grippin. "He
did it to be mean, just to tantalize you. If it ain't legal,
he'll send another man with it. Oh, I would like to talk
to Si Green a minute. I'd like to tell him some things.
If it hadn't been for you, he'd have starved and his whole
family. You can get mad if you want to, Nora. I know
he's your aunt's husband. But that don't make any difference.
I should think you'd be proud of him, a man
that's got rich making cider. He's done more harm in
this neighborhood than he could do good if he should live to
be as old as Methuselah. Him, a member of the church,
making cider and selling it to get men drunk."

"I wonder how he found out about the note," said the
major.

"It's that Phleet Takum," replied Mrs. Grippin. "He
keeps posted on your business better than you do. He
has done a great deal to destroy your credit."

"It is strange," remarked the major, "how a man of
Philetus' ability can do so much harm. I can explain it in
no way except by the law of virtual velocities: 'Power,
multiplied by the distance through which it moves, equals
weight, multiplied by the distance through which it moves. '
To accomplish a given result, then, a man of half average
ability must move through twice the space, or, in other
words, bestir himself twice as much as an ordinary man.
Here comes Trace. I must see how he left William Henry
Harrison."

Montcalm informed Ratke that he had left William
Henry Harrison at Green's gate, apparently none the worse
for his fit.

"Do you know he is an officer of the law?" queried
the major, as he was unhitching a tug.

"No, is he?" ejaculated Montcalm.

"The Republicans and part of the Democrats of Jefferson
township," said Ratke, "disgraced themselves by
electing that poor idiot boy to the office of constable.
Today he made his first official visit."

"I am surprised," commented Montcalm.

"That is all I can tell you," said Ratke quickly, feeling
that he had already said too much. "To succeed in
business a man must bridle his tongue. If he gives a
knowledge of his affairs to the gossips, he places them
before a double convex lens, which may converge the
heat of public scrutiny to melt his gold, as that metal is
sometimes melted at a powerful focus."

"I have no wish to pry into your affairs," replied
Montcalm. "On the contrary, I am opposed to receiving
from you any confidence which you may afterward regret."

"This much I can tell you. Trace," said Ratke. "The
constable's errand was not to perform a duty connected
with criminal law."

"I felt assured of that," replied Montcalm. "You
will never be suspected of crime. I will care for this
horse if you will tell me how much grain to feed him."

It often happens that a skillful investigator will by
professed indifference lull suspicions of his art and
extract much information which by any other means he
would be unable to obtain. This is what was done by
Montcalm. Ratke thought that he had been boorish with
the son of his old comrade. He would atone for his
surliness by a partial explanation.

"This is a civil matter," he remarked, "a little debt
which I owe and which I thought would not be presented
for collection in a year."

"You have been hardly fair with me," said Montcalm.

"You have not allowed me to do the chores enough to
learn them. How much grain do you feed this horse?"

"Never mind the horse," exclaimed Ratke impatiently.
"You do not seem to like to listen to me, Trace. I have
been sued by Green. He has bought a note of twenty
dollars against me. Not that it is anything serious, but
some other things unite with it to make up a combination
which promises me trouble. The farm is sold on the
mortgage in July."

"Your Jerusalem wagon ought to help you out," said
Montcalm.

"Oh," replied Ratke. "If I could get my wagon into
the market, I could pay for my farm. If I could pay for
my farm, I could get my wagon into the market. Both
are wedged in the narrow passage of fatality, each waiting
to be extricated by help from the other. To-day I re-
ceived a letter from my patent lawyer, stating that he
must have fifty dollars or he could not proceed further
with the business. I bought a cow of Osborne for thirty
dollars and I agreed to get her in two weeks. I can muster
not more than twenty-five dollars with which to meet these
sums, I own a farm, the Barton hundred and sixty,
which is east of the county line and which is unencumbered.
I might mortgage that, but I hate to do it."

"Is that the extent of your trouble?" asked Montcalm.
"I can lend you one hundred dollars. Last week I got
my quarterly dividend on a one-thousand-dollar share of
stock."

"One thousand dollars!" cried the major. "One
thousand dollars surely cannot bring a quarterly dividend
of one hundred dollars."

"The quarterly dividend is one hundred and fifty," said
Montcalm.

"In what kind of stock have you invested ?" queried
Ratke.

"That I am not at liberty to tell," responded Montcalm.
"Every member of the company is bound to keep its
operations secret."

"Get out of it as soon as you can," advised Ratke.
"It is fraudulent, or there would be no need of
secrecy."

"I will do so at once," acquiesced Montcalm. "At the
next quarter I will withdraw my capital."

"I am suspicious of such organizations," said Ratke.
"Did you ever hear of Nijni Novgorod oats?"

"I never did," replied Montcalm.

"That," pursued Ratke, "was the most successful
swindle which was ever worked on the farmers of
Michigan. For every bushel of grain which the company
sold to a farmer, it received ten dollars and agreed to sell
for him the next year twice that quantity at the same
price, minus the agent's fee of twenty-five per cent.
Thus, for each bushel of grain the farmer bought, he gave
ten dollars and got fifteen. He was bound by agreement
not to sell the oats for less than they cost him. Jackson
County went wild over the speculation. As the Nijni
Novgorod fellows gave credit and took notes for pay,
every one had means to invest.

"After harvest the agents were not to be found.
Then the crisis came. The notes had passed into the
hands of those whom the law calls innocent purchasers
and, of course, had to be paid. Men put their property
out of their hands to avoid payment. Jasper Smith, a
prosperous farmer who had been defrauded to the amount
of twelve hundred dollars, hung himself in his own barn.
Yet this lesson, severe as it was, did not educate the
people. They would seize with avidity the next chance
to be swindled."

"I will get out of the company at the next quarter,"
assured Montcalm. "By that time I shall have doubled
my investment."

"Oh, I would not be too fast," said the major. "But
they will never draw me into the scheme. I would like
to have one of their agents come here. I would give him
a snub which he would not soon forget."

"The company will not attempt to inveigle you," replied
Montcalm. "It does not send out agents. It wishes
to be composed of those only who are now its members."

"How clannish!" Ratke exclaimed, "to want to keep
a good thing all to itself. I have no patience with such
companies. You can tell me something of its nature
Trace?"

Not without a permit from the president and directors,"
answered Montcalm. "I must keep my promise
of secrecy, even though I offend my father's friend and
mine."

"Break your promise to no one," said Ratke. "But
you can write to them for permission to impart the
knowledge I wish?"

"They may not like to let you know," suggested Montcalm.
"Nevertheless, I will write."

"I will risk it," replied the major. "They would give
me permission to join if I desired to do so. Now, I have
no wish to join you. But you write and ask them if I
may. I will wager a box of cigars that they will accept
me as a member."

"Done," said Montcalm," and I will show you their
answer. I am certain of my cigars, however. They will
admit no new members."

"They are very exclusive," commented the major.
"Are they afraid of contamination from the common
people? None of them have better blood than I. My
ancestor, Johann Ratke, was a grandson of Martin
Gerard, the uncle of Erasmus. What king of the fourteenth
century wielded a more powerful and more enduring
scepter than the philosopher of Rotterdam?"



CHAPTER V.
RAMOTH GILEAD PREDICTED.

The next Sunday was cloudy and cold. The raw west
wind swept along stray flakes of snow in almost horizontal
lines. Saturday Wingscheut had hailed the sight of a
chipmunk as a certain omen of immediate spring; and this
bleak Sabbath had followed, as if the very elements
delighted to disprove the predictions of the false prophet.

For six successive days Mrs. Grippin had been indulging
in regret and blame for their absence from church the
previous Sunday: regret for the rain which had furnished
an excuse for non-attendance, blame for the inconsistency
of the boastful soldier and philosopher, who bragged of
indifference to red-hot cannon balls, and yet was afraid of a
few little drops of cold water.

For these trials the major had his consolation. It was
the common lot of philosophers to be censured and
abused. Did not Guericke suffer from popular ignorance
and prejudice? Was not Galileo assailed and even
obliged to retract his theories? And had not Socrates
his Xantippe, the prototype of Mrs. Grippin?

The church, which was of good size, considering its
country location, stood on a slight elevation, about 
three-fourths of a mile west of the Ratke dwelling. Between
thenedifices the ground curved and merged in a miniature
valley which occupied most of the distance. Southwest
of the house of worship were the farm buildings and cider
mill of Josiah Green, who held the mortgage on the
major's estate.

The pastor, a man quick to discover motes and beams
in the eyes of his congregation, and ready to grab at the
offending particle or bulk the instant of its discovery, had
prepared a philippic for the special benefit of Green.


His text was Romans fourteenth chapter and twentyfirst
verse: "It is good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink
wine, nor anything whereby thy brother stumbleth, or is
offended, or is made weak."

Starting from the premise that each one, in a measure,
molds the character of his neighbor, he launched boldly
into the theme of man's responsibility for the conduct of
his fellows.

"What is it that we are to refrain from doing ? Anything,
remember, anything, by which our brother stumbleth,
or is offended, or is made weak.

"That which injures our brother maybe quite harmless
to ourselves. Nevertheless, if it diminishes his virtue or
his faith, we should avoid it, even though the degree of
decline be so slight that it is visible only by Him on
whom that faith is fixed.

"One of God's people, if he were not in the trammels of
Church discipline, might be placed in such circumstances
that he could dance without moral degeneration. But
if, thereby, his brother is led into bad company, if
possible converts avoid a faith whose votaries seem insincere,
it is his duty to lop off the pleasure, even though it be
dear as his right hand.

"Card-playing could be indulged in without sin, provided
we were sure that no sinful consequences would follow
the game. There is no contamination in the pictures
or the card-board. The queen of clubs does not look
wholly depraved. The king of hearts, though his appearance
is not prepossessing, is too lazy and inefficient to be a
power for evil. Bibles which carry a knowledge of the
Saviour to the center of barbarism, are made from the
same material as spades and aces. But for all that,
card-playing entices to evil. Card-playing should be
tolerated in no Christian or moral home.

"Who will say that there is evil in a glass of cider which
is guaranteed never to touch the lips of man? Yet, cider
is the greatest curse which this community has ever seen.
More, than beer, more than whisky, more than the horse-thieves,
against whom so many anathemas have been breathed, cider
is bringing its awful harvest of pain and crime. But in
this congregation, --- for I see them now, ---
are men in whose cellars are cider barrels, whose sons,
following their father's lead, descend the stairs, turn the
faucet and change themselves into receptacles of the potion
which would make fiends of angels. Ay, brethren, I
see those who manufacture the damning beverage
poured into the throats of topers and of boys now unpolluted,
to lure them on to places of infamy, to leave them
helplessly wallowing in the mire of debauchery and whiskey,
for whisky is the natural successor of cider. And these
men, together with their victims, are descending to the
lake of fire and brimstone, not on a stream of pure water
reflecting the sunlight from its sandy bed, but along a
river of yellow cider reeking with the smell of rotten
pomace and of dead men's bones."

The rural preacher supported the above denuniciation
by awkward gestures and a high degree of earnestness.
Green's manner, while he was receiving in addition to this
chastisement the glances of most of the congregation, was
less perturbed than usual. He was a spare, nervous man
of medium height. It was his custom in church often to
look out of the window, to cross and recross his legs and
to show other signs of restlessness.

On this occasion, leaning his elbows on the back of the
pew in front of him, he looked steadily at the preacher
He appeared heartily to indorse the sermon and to have
no suspicion that it was intended for him; and, when he
received a bolt more crushing than its predecessor, he
smiled, as if approving the condemnation which was to be
meted out to some other man.

In class meeting he rose as he had done nearly
Sunday for a dozen years, said a few words hastily, and
sat down with the air of one who rejoices that he has
finished an unpleasant duty.

Montcalm was invited to a position in the choir as
he and Manie sang from the same book, many a rustic
swain shared the jealousy of Wrengell.

After class meeting Lyman Sparks arose to make "a
sejestion."

"There's one thing we forgot about, brothers and sisters
the donation to Brother Osborne's. We ain't made any
pervision for the needcessties o'the 'casion. Of course,
there'll be some needcessties, an' we ought to make some
pervision for 'em. I motion that we have a committee
o'three to pervide for the 'casion."

When the motion had been passed, Mr. Sparks again
arose.

"I sejest the names o' Brother Osborne, Brother Green
an', well, mebbe I've said enough. I don't want to have
too much to say about this thing. Somebody else sejest
another name."

Sparks was chosen as the last committee man, the
benediction was pronounced and the people dispersed.

"I'd like to see Lime Sparks tell me what to cook,"
said Mrs. Grippin, as she was on her way home, "or Si
Green. If they come poking their noses around where
I'm cooking, they'll get out, that's all."

In the afternoon, while the rest of the family were out
at church, Nora entertained Fred Loomis, the clerk in Dr.
Rorus' drug-store at Break o'Day. Loomis was stylishly
attired. He had town manners, a slight frame, and an
equally slight mustache. On matters of dress and general
deportment, he trusted his judgment implicitly, but, in
conversation which required the higher attributes of mind,
he felt his weakness. Often, when he thought a remark
or circumstance amusing, he suppressed a laugh until one
of his associates demonstrated by example the propriety
of its indulgence.

When evening came, this village dandy, Nora, Manie
and Montcalm were in the parlor.

The clerk and Nora on a couch whispered and giggled,
while Manie and Montcalm, in a further corner of the
room, maintained less secrecy and more dignity.

"That is a fine likeness," observed Montcalm, pointing
to a portrait of a man who had a broad, high brow, large,
expressive eyes and a stern, intellectual face. "Every
boy knows Senator Mallard's picture. One can almost
think that he sees the words of his last great speech issuing
from those firm-set lips. He is a recognized champion
in debate."

"Yes," said Manie. "He and Uncle James were classmates
at college. He has visited us several times since
I can remember. Uncle James is a Democrat, you know,

Every time Senator Mallard comes they engage in a hot
political discussion, which Uncle James begins, unmindful
of his previous defeats. Uncle James says he is the only
man who ever conquered him fairly in argument."

"Conquest by him is no disgrace," returned Montcalm.
"It is the common fate of those who oppose him. Will
you please favor us with a song or some instrumental
music? A love of the beautiful is the very origin of music,
and it is what you have shown in the decoration of this
room. The cheap and the gorgeous you have eschewed,
while you have drawn liberally from unpretentious and
intrinsic beauty. The picture at the right of the mirror
is an illustration of my statement. Here we have, well
portrayed, a pleasing scene in rural life, a fine house and
barn, with mountains looming up in the background.
See how neat everything is about the place."

"Everything is unnaturally neat and proper," replied
Manie. "The horses' heads are too high. The sheep
are too large, and that cow looks as if she were posing for
a picture. Nobody ever saw so square and high a load of
hay as that one going into the barn. The man on it is
standing so straight that he will bump his head unless
he stoops. The artist could have improved the picture
by tipping over one of the lightning-rods and tearing down
a gate."

"It need not show slovenliness to be accurate," Montcalm
answered;" I acknowledge your superiority in logic,
but I still contend that I am right."

"Allow me to give you a compliment in return," said
Manie. "You would make an excellent lightning-rod
agent. Every man you met would have fat hogs, blooded
cattle or smart children. Get your note-book and I will
give you a list of flattering remarks which would insure a
sale.

"Compliment one, Intelligent farmer. Compliment two,
Large chickens. Compliment three, Smart children. But,
if your pleasing speeches are addressed to a lady, do not
have them.

"Compliment one, Robust and healthful. Compliment
two, Fragile and delicate."

"I am wounded by the lash of sarcasm," said Montcalm. "Each
neighborhood has its local satirist, pouring
out MacFlecknoes and Dunciads on hapless Shadwells
and Gibbers. This character, varying in sagacity and
bitterness, according to training and original talent, native
cheerfulness and the world's usage, is a necessity to progress.
No great reform is accomplished without his help.
Whenever society moves slowly in its duty, he strikes the
hindmost; and though the laggard may not afterward be
found in the front of the procession, he is apt to abandon
the position of rear-guard to another, who in turn finds it
an inconvenient and dangerous post. But I will not class
you with the common satirist, for you have shown more
refined talent than he. You have been taking lessons of
Pope, Juvenal and Swift."

"Now, you are losing your art, Mr. Montcalm," said
Manie. "First, you ascribe to me the most delicate sensibility,
and now you class me with as vulgar a satirist as
Swift. Do you think I would write the, 'Tale of a Tub'?
I am glad that, if I have not the genius to compose
the Dunciad, neither have I the vindictive spirit which
prompted it. You should memorize your flattering statements,
and then they would not conflict."

"Now, I am hit sorely and wantonly," said Montcalm.
"How often have I been proceeding carelessly, if not unwittingly,
in error when I felt a smarting, agonizing blow;
and I knew that I had been struck by that scourge of
scourges, that whip of scorpions, the lash of the local satirist.
Then, I sometimes encased myself in the armor of
reasoning and excuse, and, confident in my protecting
mail, took up my old line of march. But a certain man (or
woman) drew a bow at a venture, and behold, Ahab was
smitten between the joints of the harness."

"If Ahab would avoid the fatal arrow," returned Manie,
"he should shun the field of Ramoth Gilead, or, better
still, he should not make covenants with Ben-hadad."

"Make covenants with Ben-hadad?", said Montcalm,
nervously turning his head. "What does that mean?"

"Ahab did not enter into an offensive and defensive
alliance with Ben-hadad," Manie replied. "He merely
spared the life of the wicked Syrian when he had him in
his power. He who compromises with, or refuses to
attack error, commits the sin of Ahab; and he will meet
his punishment as surely as did the son of Omri."

"Then every man who temporizes with evil will meet a
bloody death?" queried Montcalm with a smile.

"You must not infer that," answered Manie. "As the
sin differs in some respects from that of Ahab, so in all
probability will the punishment. But he who permits the
perpetration of an evil which he can prevent will not be
held guiltless. To that man, in some way, in time or
eternity, Ramoth Gilead must come."

Montcalm saw that, whatever his ability in compliment,
Manie was more than his equal in argument, He determined
now to abandon the contest, which he would not so
long have continued had he not wished to give her the
flattering opinion of her own skill as a controversialist.

"Give Ahab a truce," he said. "The donation at Mr.
Osborne's is next Friday night. Mr. Sparks advised us
to make 'pervision for the needcessties o' the 'casion.'
My chief 'needcessty' is a companion for the evening.
May wicked Ahab presume to ask you to ride in his
chariot?"

"Oh! I'm a-going to have some fun!" exclaimed
Nora, jumping up and rushing to the sitting-room.

"What is she going to do?" asked Montcalm.

"Nobody knows what she is going to do," Manie answered.

In a few minutes Nora returned, bringing with her
Archer. The hired man, whose body was encased in a
blue coat with large brass buttons, strode into the room,
carrying his head and shoulders very erect.

"Good-evening, Mrs. Ratke," he said with a profound
bow.

Archer in his youth had been taught that a married
lady's proper title is Mrs.; and he had broadened this
definition until he made it embrace every member of the
sex, whether married or unmarried.

"Oh, Mr. Archer," said Nora, "we're so glad you've
come. We want you to sing for us."

"Well," responded Archer, tipping back his chair and
spreading the sides of his coat wide apart with his hands,
at the same time taking care that the brass buttons should
be conspicuous, "I don't pretend to be much of a singician,
but folks used to say I could sing."

"Of course you can sing," persisted Nora. "Good
singers do have to be urged so. Fred can't sing bass,
and Mr. Montcalm can't sing it, and so we want you to.
Now, Mr. Archer, don't make any more excuses, but go
right up and help them sing."

Manie much against her will went to the organ and assisted
Montcalm and Archer to sing "The Sweet By-and-By."

Archer, maintaining the same pitch throughout the
hymn, tapped the floor with his foot, bobbed his head
from side to side, and without any approach to a tune
rumbled away with all his might.

Nora's enjoyment of the scene was well-nigh perfect.
She clapped her hands, rolled over on the sofa and, but
for Archer's monotonous "By-and-By, By-and-By," would
certainly have been heard by him.

"Oh, that was splendid, Mr. Archer," she cried, when
the hymn was concluded. "I wish I could sing like that.
Now give us a song, please."

"What kind of a song, Mrs. Warfle?" Archer inquired.

"Something sentimental," answered Nora. "That's
what we would all like to hear."

Thus encouraged, Archer began to sing a narrative, most
of which on account of its tedious length must be briefly
told in prose.

    "Come listen to the awful tals,
    That in song I shall bewail,
    About a preacher's only son,
    And all for love he was undone.
    He was but eighteen years of age
    When in love he did engage."

When he was twenty years old, after receiving a call to
preach, he repeated his proposals of marriage to the young
lady.

    "But her people, they did object
    To him, because he had no prospect."

Her affections blighted, the maiden pined steadily away,
and an anxious friend made the following inquiry:

    "Madam, what makes you look so pale?
    Madam, what makes your colors fail?
    Your cheeks was once like roses red,
    And now they look as though you was dead.
    Your eyes was once as black as sloes.
    Now to the grave methinks they goes."

On this solicitation the maiden, telling the story of her
love, imparted a warning to those who interfere with affairs
of the heart, and at the close of the injunction gave
a wail of agony and expired. The parents, stricken with
grief at their loss, sent for the minister's son.

    "Then to the funeral he did go,
    Was dressed in black from top to toe.
    This noble young man took his bed,
    And in a week more he was dead."

With a voice alternating between a roar and a yell, the
singer told the moral to the tragedy in forty lines, four of
which are subjoined.

    "Now, all you people, far and near,
    To stop true love you should ever fear;
    For young folks parted sighs do heave.
    Sometimes they die and oft do grieve."

"Oh, dear! Oh, my! Oh, my! Oh, dear!" ejaculated
Nora, making no attempt to conceal her mirth while
the clerk, as he thought, very properly seconded, with
less effusiveness, her demonstrations of glee. "Oh!
that's awful good, Mr. Archer. That's splendid. Oh!
my! Oh, dear! 'Sometimes they die and oft do grieve.'
What! You're not going now, are you?"

"Yes, it's getting along towards bedtime," returned
Archer, whose perception, though dull, was still acute
enough to show him that he was being made the butt of
ridicule.

"It is too bad," said Manie, when Archer had gone.
"I am ashamed of you, Nora. You have no right to hurt
people's feelings in that way."

"Preach all you want to," retorted Nora.

"Won't you do an errand for me?" she asked, accosting
Archer, who had not yet taken his departure from the
house, and whose countenance suggested that he was in ill
humor from the treatment which he had received.

"Well?" answered the hired man gruffly.

"I wish you would tell Mr. Wrengell to come up here,"
said Nora.

"I'll see," returned Archer in a tone which showed that
he had no intention to oblige her.

"Oh, please, Mr. Archer," pleaded Nora. "I do so
want to see him. Tell him, and I'll remember it a long
while, and I'll think how good you was. Won't you, Mr.
Archer?"

"Well, yes," said Archer hesitatingly, "I'll tell him."

Wrengell was surprised at the summons which he received.
Without waiting to make some needed changes
in his apparel he started, and soon stood in the
diningroom, embarrassed and expectant.

"There are some young folks in the parlor," explained
Nora. "We want you to join us."

"Oh, I can't possibly."

"Yes, you can," said Nora, taking his sleeve and pulling
him gently along." There is nobody in the house that
will hurt you. Come on, now, without any more excuses."

"Don't you go into any of your nonsense, Nora," said
Mrs. Grippin, as they passed through the sitting-room.

The major without the knowledge of Mrs. Grippin had
placed in one of the parlor bedrooms a chair, the rounds
of which had been broken. Nora, quickly slipping into
the bedroom, brought out the superannuated piece of
furniture for Wrengell, who was too embarrassed to notice
the maneuver. At the instant he sat down, however, the
spreading chair legs and descending cane bottom warned
him of the insecurity of his position and compelled him to
bear most of the weight of his body on his legs.

"Won't you sing us a song, Mr. Wrengell?" said Nora
with a giggle, which was echoed by the clerk.

"I do not care to sing," answered Wrengell, now 
comprehending her motive in enticing him to the parlor.

"Oh, please, do sing us something sentimental," said
Nora, interspersing now and then a smothered laugh between
the words, "something about somebody that--that
died for--for love, you know."

"Sing something of your own selection," suggested
Manie, endeavoring by kindly encouragement to atone for
Nora's misdemeanor.

On hearing this invitation Wrengell came to the conclusion
that the company had entered into a conspiracy
to make him appear ridiculous; and his embarrassment
was quickly supplanted by anger.

"Thank you, I do not care to sing," he responded.

"Perhaps you will play for us," said Manie.

Springing to his feet, with such violence that the rickety
chair spread out its loose-jointed legs and squatted nearly
to the floor, Wrengell went quickly to the organ.

The instrument broke forth into a roar of wrath. It
seemed to bid defiance to the company, to tell them that
the man whom they had insulted was above and indifferent
to their sneers. Gradually the notes decreased in
volume and increased in rapidity, until the sounds appeared
almost to coalesce; yet not once did the fingers
of the player err in the selection of a key or appear to
move more swiftly than their normal gait.

Such a manifestation of proficiency where none was
expected filled the four auditors with astonishment.

Manie and Montcalm listened in admiration, Nora
opened her mouth in surprise, while the shallow clerk
glanced at her to ascertain if he were to grin again at
Wrengell's expense.

With exquisite modulation Wrengell changed the music
from anger to solemnity and from solemnity to pathos;
and he brought out with unusual distinctness that one
superiority of instrumental over vocal music, its
application to individual thought without the
circumscription of language.

A song beautiful in conception and glowing with power
often fails to produce an impression, because he for whom
it is rendered finds in it nothing which coincides with his
sympathies or experience. But he who hears a well-played
instrumental has no assurance that it was not composed for
the benefit of his special class. To the resigned sufferer
the solemn largissimo may be a strain of patient resignation,
while to the misanthrope it is the wail of hopeless
despair. The sparkling brillante, which animates one to
heroic deeds and lofty aims, fills another with dreams of
the revel and the debauch.

It was impossible to tell in what channel moved the
reflections of Manie and Montcalm, who, alone of those
present, were capable of appreciating the skill of the
musician. But whether they were impelled to noble or
to base purposes, they were moved, in no common degree,
by those finer variations, those nicer shades of expression
which distinguish the touch of the master from mere
agility and correctness of movement.

Wrengell rose from the organ with as much suddenness
as he had approached it, and, determined to show his
indifference to their opinions, he left the parlor, casting
back a look of contempt, which he meant to include every
person in the room. Passing through the sitting-room,
where the major and Mrs. Grippin were engaged in a
controversy, deliberate on the one side and furious on the
other, he went through the dining-room, the kitchen and
into the open air.

It was with dejection that Wrengell entered the chamber
of the club-house and seated himself on the only unoccupied
bed. The affront which had been given him in
the major's parlor was by no means the first which he had
been compelled to bear. From his infancy disgrace had
been his lot. He had been told the story of his drunken
parents, of his mother who was sent to the penitentiary,
of his father who wandered to a distant state, there to be
imprisoned for some offense the details of which were
forgotten but the commission of which was being frequently
recalled. Taken from a poorhouse at an early age by a
farmer, who was ever reminding him of the charity, he
strove manfully to repay the debt which, he fancied, he
owed. He was given severe tasks to perform; and the
story of his degradation was spread broadcast by the man
with whom he lived, to such an extent that he was publicly
shunned.

When he was unable to bear the exactions of his foster-father,
Wrengell left the shelter of his roof and turned his
attention to his neglected education. Working between
terms and studying nights, he made excellent progress;
and, at the time he commenced work for Ratke, he had
gone half through college and had taken the greater part
of a thorough musical course.

And this boy, without wealth, with a lineage so mean
that its very mention gave him shame, was proud, proud
as they who openly ignored him, proud as that greater
number who recognized his title to acquaintanceship, but
drew between him and them a barrier which, more felt
than seen, prevented the relations of intimate friendship.

Slowly he drew off one shoe and bared his left foot.
It was not a perfect member. The main part of the foot
was symmetrical, but from the outer edge branched a
sixth toe, which increased in size the extremity of the limb
and made a small protuberance appear on the surface of
the shoe.

Wrengell looked down at the malformation with a feeling
almost of hatred. How often in his childhood, when,
before he was large enough to work, he went barefooted
to school, had his companions pointed sneeringly at his
deformity. The drunken father, the depraved mother,
the sixth toe he had considered component parts of his
disgrace.

He had thought that, far from the associations of his
youth, he might escape the obloquy which had weighed
him down. He believed that the mark of shame was upon
him, that it was visible to whomsoever he met, that it had
been seen by the Ratkes, and that by them he was despised.

Archer had been by common consent relegated to the
farther corner of the room, and was there snoring 
comfortably, and noisily. Wrengell, knowing that no common


