
"Helloa, there," called Whipple, just as John had
passed them. "What's your name?"

The salutation was not the one most likely to propitiate
an individual who considered that he had already been
the subject of interest far too intense to be polite.

"When I am satisfied that you have a right to demand
an answer, I will give it," replied John.

"We'll see whether we have a right to question you,"
said the flaxen-whiskered man, jumping from the steps.
"Come on, boys. Now will you tell us what your name is?"

"No," returned John. "Get out of my way, or I'll
break some of your heads."

"If I was in your place, I wouldn't be so cranky," said
Briggs. "That colt that followed you out of the swamp last
night was stole, and some of 'em think you took him."

"If that is the case," said John, "I recognize your
right to ask the question. Mr. Boyle knows me, do you
not, Mr. Boyle?"

"I never saw you before," answered the sullen Alf, who
had joined the throng.

"Why, I was at your house last night," protested John.
"Mr. Durgenson introduced us."

"You wasn't there last night, nor never," affirmed Alf;
"anyway you never was when I was there."

The crowd hooted and jostling against one another,
endeavored to press closer to Wrengell.

"Grab him," yelled the flaxen-whiskered man.

It was advantageous to John that his enemies were
packed closely about him. Had they been excited by a
rush, it is impossible to say what violence they would have
done. The seizure was merely an extension of the
captors' arms, to which John very quietly and sensibly
submitted. Many who were unable to get near him picked
up stones and clubs, staggered about and uttered loud
threats.

"That is Dr. Rorus' drug-store," said John. "There
is a man in there whom I know."

"What did you say?" inquired Briggs. "They make
so much noise. Keep still a minute, boys, can't you?"

"Tell Loomis to come out," said John. "He knows
me."

"Doctor," shouted Briggs, "where's Fred? This fellow
says he knows him."

"Gone to Sharp town," said the doctor. "Won't be
back till to-night. You had better confess this business,
young man. The American people are a magnanimous
people. They are a great people. Confess it, young man.
If you do, Dr. Rorus is on your side. I tell you, when
you've got him, you've got a host."

"I am one of Major Ratke's hired men," said John.
"I have worked for him all summer and have formed
some acquaintance, but none of them, except your clerk,
live here."

The crowd, gathered from the scum of Break o'Day
and the surrounding country, was gesticulating, contending,
threatening. There were, indeed, several who tried
to protect the unfortunate Wrengell from the general wrath.
Inoffensive Jimmy Martin mildly protested that they
ought to give him "a show for his life." Keen contrition
was felt by Briggs for the account which he had given of
John's exit from the swamp. He had much exaggerated
the facts, and the exaggeration was likely to result in
the murder of a man whom he believed he had grossly
wronged.

"Boys," he called, "less see what he's got to say for
himself. We don't want to hurt him till we find out
whether he deserves it or not."

"Take him down to the tree," said the flaxen-whiskered man.

The party moved down the street to an oak, the spreading
branches of which often afforded a shade to the villagers.
Stakes had been driven, one under the tree, another
a few paces from it, and around each had been worn
depressions where the boys and men had pitched quoits.

"Where's a rope?" called Boyle. "Somebody git a
rope."

Half the mob started up the village, leaving the rest to
guard Wrengell. John saw no hope of rescue.

In the besotted, reddened faces around him was neither
judgment nor mercy. Those who were least intoxicated
were almost invariably hardest of heart by nature, and
seemed to rejoice over the circumstances which had
delivered the prisoner into their hands. Those who were
naturally best disposed were, as a rule, too much overcome
by drink to have an exact perception of justice. He
resolved that, whatever pleasure they derived from his
execution, they should not have the satisfaction of seeing him
weaken at the last moment. He would die unflinchingly,
without a word of entreaty. If the ruffians expected to
witness his dejection or terror, they should be disappointed.
If in the death-struggle his body yielded to the convulsions
of expiring nature, it should be when it was no longer
presided over by his will. To the south of him lay the swamp
which he had been so anxious to leave. Its aspect, as he
stood in the power of the brutal loungers, was far from
forbidding to him. The tamaracks were in two phalanxes.
In the first were the short trees with their conical figures,
standing the advance guard of a mighty host. The next
were of high stature, but irregular in form, their tops
lacking the gradual taper which beautified those in the first
body. Beyond these, like giants in the rear of a throng,
were the upland woods, looking down on the outskirts of
the hamlet, where savage men were arranging a spectacle
both fascinating and revolting.
[nh 182]
Washington Street was in a tumult, A long inch rope
had been obtained and grasped by many hands, was being
carried to the intended gallows. Several business m;.n of
the town were accompanying the roughs and vainly expos-
tulating on the precipitancy of their action. Wingscheut
was with them, delivering a narrative only part of which
could be distinguished above the uproar. John was about
to reckon on a certificate of good character from his fel-
low-laborer, when he reflected that the German had mis-
trusted him of having secured his discharge from Ratke's.
The vigilance of those about him had lessened. They
had scattered and were intent on inspecting the body ad-
vancing with the rope. His left arm was clulched fiercely
by Boyle ; his right was held in an indifferent grasp by
young Biake, who was between him and the tamaracks.

Suddenly he jerked loose his right hand and planted it
on the jaw of Boyle, who fell, momentarily stunned. As
he whirled about, Blake quickly moved aside. The only
one now in his way was Briggs; and his interviewer of
the ear/y morning, -j '^ that he could partly nullify the ef-
fect of his misrepr^^ i^tion, purposely stumbled over a



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK' O' DA V. 183

Stone and allowed liiin to pass unmolested. Wrengeli
barely touched the fence in leaping it. With light feet
and swift steps he ran toward the swamp, in the brush and
quagmires of which he might find protection. The dis-
appointed mob, uttering yell after yell of rage, started in
pursuit. Among other cries John could plainly discern
those of Wingscheut, who did not recognize the fugitive,
"Cetch te tarn horse-tief. Cetch te tam horse-tief, "

The distance between him and the rabble was increas-
ing. He could not understand why they spread far to the
left and right, unless it were to prevent him from escaping
in either direction lengthwise of the swamp. The course
which he took was undeviating. Some lazy cattle directly
ahead of him dashed out of his way as he ran almost



1 84



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O* DA Y.



most in sight, were crashing through the swamp. He had
decided to turn, draw his revolver and stake his chance
of escape on one determined charge, when across the point
of land, through the thin growth of trees, he discovered a
boat. Not a minute did he occupy in crossing the cape,
but rapid as was his progress, it did not bring him first on
the spot which he wished to reach. Yoiing Blake and a
companion gained the dock, barely in advance of him,
and stood, panting, to intercept his flight. With a flour-
ish of his revoJver he dashed at the young men, who
scrambled precipitately to land, unheeding water, mud
and reputation for courage. John' s haste was nearly as
great as that of the foes whom he had frightened. Slip-
ping on the narrow dock, which was composed of a few
poles, he fell into the water, regaining his footing as Alf
Boyle emerged from the tamaracks. To his discomfiture
he found the boat locked. He must act with decision,
for a reinforcement of roughs was but a few rods distant.
He seized the chain and pulled with his entire strength,
but the fastening remained secure. In desperation he
clutched a paddle and pushed. The chain straightened,
the lock gave way ; the momentum had accomplished what
the steady force could not.

Alf in the mean time had traversed the dock. His eye,
which the night before had avoided John, was now fixed
upon him with a brute ferocity. Seeing the boat sheer-
ing away from him, he sprang into the lake and grasped
its gunwale, nearly overturning it. At the instant he was
raising himself to clamber on board, he received from
John's paddle a blow on the head, which loosened his
hold and obliged him to seize the dock to keep from sink-
ing. Several young men leaped into the lake, but they
were kept from a near approach to John by the splash-
ing of water into their faces and the sight of the paddle,
which was menacingly uplifted. The gathering mob cast
curses and sticks at the fugitive, but the demonstrations
only showed their present impotence to do him harm. It
was fortunate for John that there were no fire-arms among
them ; for, had they possessed them, they certainly would
not have hesitsited to u5^ ^^^"^???
Wrengell, perspiriuo- ^"^ fatigued from his long run,xiid



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA V. 185

not feel at liberty to pause. He did, however, wait long
enough to remove his coat and vest, which had much im-
peded his flight. Near the opposite shore and. a con-
siderable distance apart were two boats laden with fisher-
men. After repealed signaling and shouting they under-
stood that they were expected to stop an escaping horse-
thief. They unfastened the chains from the anchoring
poles and guided their vessels so as to bring them across
Wrengell's route. In an emergency rashness is sometimes
safer than caution. John altered his course, steering
directly for the nearer craft. Amazed at his audacity, the
fishermen slackened their speed. Wrengell was within what
he considered good ritle range when, turning the rusted
cyhnder of his revolver and elevating the muzzle, he fired.
iHe was little practiced and had no dexterity in pistol-
shooting, but to his astonishment and their dismay, the
bullet struck close to the prow of the foremost boat. Care-
ful to turn the weapon slightly to'one side, he fired a
second time ; and the missile, whizzing past them, struck
the water with a cutting plunge. The paddles which pro-
pelled the craft stopped moving, and the occupants looked
from one to another in mute inquiry. While they were
deliberating, Wrengell pjlled toward them as if he were
anxious for an encounter. Convinced that they were
dealing with one of the most bloodthirsty of horse-lhieves,
who was bent on slaughtering the entire party, they p,id-
dled manfully to the eastern end of the lake. Those in the
second boat, finding themselves unsupported, made ofiE in
the direction of the western extremity. The crafts skirted
the opposite ends of the lake, so as to be well out of
reach of the dreaded outlaw, and in response to the fran-
tic shouting and waving of hats crossed over to transport
the crowd at the dock.

John strengthened the impression which he had made
by sending after them two more shots. He then struck
out for the southern shore, where he halted a moment to
rest. The fishermen were making their best time to re-
lieve the impatience of the waiting party. Messages were
yelled back and forth, but most of them came from the
shore, for the men on the water were putting forth too*;/
much other exertion to indulge freely in vocalization, ???;' C



i86 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA K

Wrengell threw his coat and vest into the tall grass, and
after a short pause continued his way. The swamp at
this plaae offered no security. Above or below him he
believed it to be denser and he determined to go to the
eastward, away from the rabble of Break o'Day, away
from the only community which had ever really respected
him, av^ay from the woman whom he loved, whose love
he had hoped to secure. His appearance with the colt
at Briggs* at such an hour and in such a condition, his
refusal to tell his identity at the village, the absence of
the slightest evidence to explain his whereabouts during
the latter portion of the night must tell heavily against
him should an accusation be preferred. lie had shown
the bearing of a hardened desperado. lie had turned
savagely on those who sought to retake him, as if he had
become accustomed to conflicts in following unlawful oc-
cupations. He had firgd upon and barely missed inoffen-
sive fishermen, whose only aggressiveness to him had been
that with no hostile demonstration they bad presumed to
come within range of his revolver. His dreams of re-
spectability were dissipated. The public would inquire-
about his antecedents, and his miserable parentage would
be made known. With his deformed foot, with the
criminal record of his father and his mother, with his own
perpetuity of the family reputation for felony how could
he win esteem 1 He decided to go to the higher ground,
which, because of its superior footing, he would follow for
several miles, returning to the swamp when he had trav-
ersed that space.

A short walk brought him to the elevated forest which
he had viewed from the village. He was on the water-
shed of the lower Michigan peninsula. The lake which
he had crossed was one of a series emptying through Huron
River into Erie. The streams on the opposite side of the
table-land went westward and, passing around Mackinac
through the upper part of the great lake-chain, arrived at
th^ same destination.

The wide spaces between the high tamaracks below

John allowed him to ^ee the surface of the water, which

r\.''vas hardly disturb^ . t^y a ripple. The boats had started

to.:r^crpss. FiJ/^,^ ^-iy^ excited men and impelled by



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK o'Day. 187

clumsy substitutes for oars, including poles and boards,
they veered from side to side as the misdirected efforts of
the rival paddlers alternately prevailed,

John started through the woods on a trot, which he in-
tended to maintain for an hour. He had no apprehension
that they would immediately overtake him, for he had
fairly outrun them at the beginning of the race. His
greatest fear was that some of them would procure horses
and, proceeding along the road, head hitn off, after which
they would make a diligent search. He arrived presently
at a field, which he deemed it injudicious to cross. In
order to avoid exposing himself to view he was obliged to
sheer farther from the swamp, passing along the edge of
the timber. The iield at his left gave place to a growth
of bushes and small trees. Not exactly liking the route
which he had chosen, he climbed a fence for the purpose
of entering the thicket. He stood a moment on the top
rail, listening for the sounds of pursuit. As he was about
to descend, the rotten rail broke and he was precipitated
heavily to the ground. He strove to rise, but a sharp
pain shot through his ankle, which refused to bear his
weight. He was crippled and defenseless, and near
him were enemies who, if they were before relentless, were
now exasperated. He hadf alien at the edge of a blackberry
thicket, the paths of which at frequent intervals indicated
that the place was much visited. In the hope of finding
a jungle which might screen him, he crawled for a few
feet, but the briars which pierced his hands soon induced
him to try another mode of travel. His next experiment
was hopping, which had also its disadvantages. The
bushes caught in his clothes, threw him off his balance,
and aggravated the pain in his injured limb. He again
went on his hands and knees, regardless of the injury to
his flesh. As he was thus advancing, he came without
warning near a woman, who with her back toward him
was picking berries.

With the intention of silently stealing away he partly
arose and was about to execute his purpose, when the
berry-picker, hearing a slight noise, turned around and



i88



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA K



But she quickly recovered her composure as she perceived
that her rough-looking visitor was the young man in whom
she had been so interested the preceding night. Her
countenance expressed some displeasure, which un-
doubtedly arose from her inability to understand why
Wrengell should use such secrecy in his approach.

"They are after me!" exclaimed John, "a crowd of
drunken men ! They think I am a horse-thief ! You can
hear them in the woods yonder."

"They are coming," said Mrs. Boyle, in a frenzied man-
ner. "I don't know where you can hide. What shall we
do > Oh, dear ! What shall we do ? "



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O" DAY, 189



CHAPTER XX.

A GOOD SAMARITAN.

"Quick ! "-said Mrs. Boyle. "They'll be here in a few
minutes. I know where you can hide. Come on. Oh,
dear ! You can't come. Lean on my shoulder."

With the help of Mrs. Boyle John made his way through
the bushes. His lame ankle was frequently twisted in
his haste. The briars scratched the hands and faces both
of him and of his companion. She conducted him to a
brush pile which was nearly grown over with running
blackberry Amines ; and letting go his arm, she threw back
the trailing cover from the dry sticks and leaves, among
which she hastily prepared a place for his reception.
John lay down on the heap, where he was covered by the
brush which Mrs. Boyle had removed and lastly by the
long vines, the meshes of which made the signs of the
disturbance less conspicuous.

"They're right here," said the lady hurriedly. "I'll run
to the house and stay till they've gone, and then I'll
come back."

Mrs. Boyle hastened to the house, which she began to
sweep. While she was thus engaged, Alf, with several
companions, came to the door. Their faces were red,
their coats and vests had been taken off, their shirts
were drenched with perspiration.

"Have you seen a feller go by here?" inquired Boyle.

"What kind of looking man ?" asked Mrs. Boyle.

"I don't care a what kind of a lookin' feller,"

returned Alf." Have you seen anybody go by ? "

"No, I haven't," said Mrs. Boyle.

"Some folks never see nothin'," said Alf, as he started
away. "Come on, boys. He's gone on, I guess."

"Will you be back to dinner, Alfred ?" inquired Mrs.
Boyle.



190 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O* DA V.

"'Tain*t none o* your bisness when 1*11 be back," answered
Alf." I ain't no little boy that's bound to give
an account for every step I take."

Other men shortly followed, scattering along as they
varied in the respective qualities of speed, endurance and
determination. It was more than an hour before all the
stragglers had passed the house. Those who were last
had waited for the third trips of the fishing-boats, or had
been delayed by going around the lake. As soon as Mrs.
Boyle considered it safe to do so, she went to the hiding-
place where she had left Wrengell. She wondered, when
she reached the spot, -that it had not been marked by the
pursuing parties. The vines had been drawn over the
brush with such haste that some of them were turned
with the berries and upper sides of the leaves down.
She removed the covering and assisted John to rise.

"You must have thought I would never come," she
said. "They were so long in going by I didn't dare tr}?^
it before. You see I've brought you some crutches.
They may be too short for you, but I think you can use
them. Alfred had them when he cut his foot. We will
go to the house now."

"It will not do for me to go there," said John. "They
will certainly find me if I do. How could I stay in the
house with your son without being discovered .^ "

"You can't stay here," returned Mrs. Boyle. "They'll
be back, and they'll hunt these brush all through. They
won't think of looking for you in the house. Alfred
doesn't stay there much. Sometimes he's away a week
at a time. You can go up into the loft. There are no
stairs and we never go up there ; that is, we haven't been
up for six months. Alfred got mad one time and he left
the ladder up there. You see, there's nothing else you
can do. You can't lie on the ground with that lame
ankle, and besides, you'd be caught."

These arguments were convincing to John. In a few

minutes he was in the loft. After his ascent, Mrs. Boyle

thrust a chair through the opening, bidding him, as he

valued his safety^ tQ ^laintain perfect silence. She then

directed John to dr^w "P ^^^ ladder, and prepared to build

a fire. The ^^of Qf i^e chamber was unsealed. Its inner



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK C DA V. 191

portion was covered with rough boards, some of which
were slabs. Built along them at frequent intervals, were
wasp-nests whose dwellers were buzzing about the room.

In a few minutes Mrs, Boyle appeared, "We must
have your boot off," she said.

"I have tried that," replied John, "but it will not

"We will have to cut it loose," said Mrs. Boyle. "Let
me take your knife,now, please."

With the knife she cut slitches and leather, and in a
short time she gently removed the boot. She thought it
advisable also to strip loose the stocking in the same way.
The deformed foot was badly swollen. The sixth toe, the
sole constituent of the deformity, was a squat, dwarfish
body, sticking from an extensive puil. John, wearied by
his long run and racked by suffering, was yet morbidly
sensitive to an exposure of the misshapen part. Mrs,
Boyle applied hot cloths to the injured ankle and handed
him a bottle of camphor for apphcation. She did not
wound his feelings by an allusion to the malformation,
nor did she appear to notice it. John could not explain
her indifference to so unusual a sight. It argued either
that she had perfect control over her actions, or that she
had previously known of his misfortune.

"I see you haven't any coat or vest," said Mrs. Boyle.
"Where did you leave them ? "

"In the grass on this side of the lake," answered John.
"I was very warm and I could run better with them off,"

"Up by the dock where you can find them when you
get well ? "

"About two or three rods from it, I threw them near
a large tree, and I will have no trouble in finding
them."

"I am afraid it will be a long lime before you can
walk," said Mrs. Boyle. "You will have a tedious time
of it. Be careful and don't wrench your ankle in the
least. It will get well a great deal sooner provided you
keep it perfectly still. I'll bring up your dinner now and
mine, too, I didn't eat much when Alfred was here."

"Are you not afraid of eating with a horse-thief?"
asked John.



192 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA K

"No," returned Mrs^ Boyle, "you never stole horses.
As soon as you feel strong enough, you must tell me how
they came to accuse you of any such thing. They are
almost all miserable men that I saw go by, -- I mean the
ones that I am acquainted with. I knew five or six of
them, and only two are what people call good citizens."

John was cautioned by Mrs. Boyle not to get so close
to a window as to be visible to a person outside. While
they were eating, and while she kept watch on the
several avenues by which the house was likely to be ap-
' proached, he related a part of the adventures which he
had experienced since they parted after their first meet-
ing. He did not reveal the identity of the Wallaces, or
allude to their conversation respecting Montcalm.

"It is a disgrace," said Mrs. Boyle, "that Dr. Rorus
will drink and sell liquor so. He used to be called a
smart man when he kept sober, but drink has nearly
ruined his mind and his practice. No one ever sees him
now, except when he has been drinking. Break o* Day
used to be a peaceful place. Now they have awful fights
there, and drunken men are around all the time. There
is a law against selling liquor, but nobody tries to put it
in force, although every one but the drunkards complain.
Once in a while I think it's my duty to make legal com-
plaint, but I do dread it so, and then Alfred, you know,
he is, well, quick-tempered, he would be mad. I am
afraid I don't always do as I ought to, just because it
isn't pleasant."

John doubted that there was a just occasion for Mrs.
Boyle's fear. He believed that she was incapable of
committing a wrong act. He had never seen another
countenance which had so much benignity, such an ex-
pression of self-forgetfulness and concern for the comfort
of others. She kept a fire in the stove, and at intervals
brought up hot water in which to dip the cloths for the
swollen limb. Mrs. Boyle did not venture to eat supper
with ]ohn m the Joft. She was apprehensive lest Alf
might change his mind ^^^ return when he was least ex-
pected. At sunset ^j^e carried a feather tick and some
clothes to the c/^a/jjLz^r and arranged for John a com-
fortable bed, WhQj^ t>^^ ^^^ ^^^^> ^^^ descended ; and



W



194



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA K



unusual number of them had large, straight trunks, run-
ning many feet high without a limb and surmounted by
well-formed, wide-spreading tops.

Near the edge of the timber a monster grape-vine was
coiled about a sapling, nearly enveloping it and completely
overspreading its branches at the top.

The tree was bent, as if its heavy burden had brought
in youth the decrepitude of age. It was like some patient
boy, who, deprived of recreation, sinks without a com-
plaint under the weight of tasks, the endurance of which
requires the strength of manhood.

A black squirrel, apparently attracted by the infrequent
spectacle, hopped leisurely to the sapling, which he pro-
ceeded to climb. He worked his way through, and
seated on the top mat of vines, began earnestly to chatter.
When he tired of this situation, he leaped to the limb of
a large white oak and again sounded his calls. He was
joined by another squirrel, which chased him round and
round the body of the tree. The second arrival made
only a short stay, but the first lingered after the departure
of his companion. Going to the extreme end of a long
limb which reached within a few feet of the house, he
looked mischievously in at the window. John was pleased
with the innocent gambols of the animal. He was about
to push his head through the window, from which he had
withdrawn, when the report of a gun rang out and the
squirrel tumbled to the ground. As helplessly flounder-
ing, the little creature strove to escape, Alf rushed up and
catching him by the tail struck his head several times
against the tree. He continued the blows until the last
shudder had passed through the inanimate frame.

John, looking through a knot-hole in the side of the
house, feared that Alf might see the open window and mis-
trust the presence of a stranger. He knew by the bru-
tality which he had so often witnessed that the ruffian, if
he could avoid the penalties of the law, would delight in
taking his life. After Alf had disappeared from his view,
he crawled forward to let down the sash, but at that
moment he heard his step below.

"Yie^T^s a squirrel ma," said Boyle. "Can you cook
him for breakfast ? "



r



: I A ^



THE CHKQNICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y. 195

"I won't have time to dress him," replied Mrs. Boyle.
"I'll cook him for dinner."

"No, yon don't have time for nothin'," rejoined Alf.
"It can't keep you very busy to cook for two. I won't
be here to dinner. I s'pose, though, you can eat him ail
yourself if you want to."

"Why can't you be here at dinner ?" asked Mrs. Boyle.
"Don't you think I ever get lonesome ? "

The conversaiion between Alf and Mrs. Boyle was
limited. As the young man was about to leave, he said ;

"I want a dollar."

"I can't very well spare it," replied Mrs. Boyle.

"I've got to have it," returned Alf. "They ain't no
use o* talkin', I must have it."

"I have use for it. It was only last Monday that I let
you have two dollars,"

"That ain't got nothin' to do wilh to-day. If I didn't
need it, I wouldn't ask you. You might just as well git
it as to fool around, for I won't be monkeyed with."

Mrs. Boyle reluctantly procured the desired sum for
Alf, who departed on receiving il. She looked troubled
when she brought John his breakfast.

Wrengell's quarters were tolerably comfortable. He had
not, indeed, many luxuries. Mrs. Boyle furnished him a
few books, but they were of a character such as, it must
be confessed, is interesting to few young persons. They
were religious works, treatises on piety, and biographies of
religious people. A strong recommendation for perusing
them, however, was the daily life of the woman by whom
they were read. She was never idle, and rarely working
for her own benefit. She daily visited the sick woman,
Mrs. Blake, and John guessed that she carried her medi-



196 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK' C DA Y.

less fellow was repeating his demand (or money, which
Mrs, Boyle was resisting.

"You want to know about every cent I spend," he said,
"just as though I was a twoyear-old young one. I
thank you, I ain't tied to your apron-strings now."

"I can't give it to you to-night, Alfred," said Mrs.
Boyle.

"Can't is a big word with you," said Alf. "That's
what you say every time, but you manage to find money
when you want to. I've got to have it to-night because
I'm goin' away, I won't be back in a week, maybe

"Why, what have you been doing ?" cried Mrs. Boyle,
"You have got into trouble."

"S'posin' 1 have," said Alf. "I can git out of it with-
out consultin' you. You git what I want, and I'll manage
the rest."

"I have let you have all I can," replied Mrs. Boyle.
"I'm afraid you don't make good use of. it."

"It don't make no difference what use I make of it,"
returned Alf, "If you don't git it, I'll burn your ole
shanty down. Now you can bet your boots on that."

"It is the Lord's," returned Mrs. Boyle firmly, "and
I must keep it."

"Then, if it's His, he hadn't ought to have it layin*
round here," said the profane Alf.

"Oh, Alfred," cried the distressed woman, "how can
you be so wicked .' I have tried to bring you up right
and cried about you and give you more than I keep
myself. But this I have promised to apply to the Lord's
purpose. Don't talk so, and don't try to make me sin by
breaking my promises ! "

"Be you a-goin' to git me that money ?" asked Alf.

"No," said Mrs, Boyle, "it is God's and I must keep
it,"

Alf was furious with rage. He uttered a savage oath,
raised his fist, struck her a blow which sent her reeling
against the wall and ran from the room. As soon as the
dispute threatened a serous termination, John arose and
began to dress. The blow from Alf's fist was struck
just before Jig reacije*^ ^^ opening which led below.



AAT o'Day. 197

: lowered himself by

Dhn. "I will teach

pleaded, sobbing in
'ou mustn't say any-
11 kill you ! ???'
John.' "He struck
hoot him I "
'??? you wouldn't shoot

d John. "No such



1^8 TUa CHRONICLES OF BREAK O* DAY.



CHAPTER XXI.

CONTROVERSY AND REMINISCENCE.

The affair at Break o'Day caused more excitement
than the murder of Green, and was the most notable event
which had happened in the vicinity that season. Repre-
sentatives of the Jackson and Ann Arbor Press visited
the hamlet, which in a few weeks acquired more reputa-
tion than it had hitherto gained in half a century. From
Wingscheut a reporter obtained a sensational and valu-
able budget of news. His paper stated that the valiant
German had been fated singularly often to meet the
horse-thieves, that in the spring he had an encounter
with them when they were escaping with a horse at the
barn of a farmer named Spartus, that in the swamp near
Break o'Day he . maintained, unarmed and unaided, a
combat with four of them, and that, had he been properly
supported, the entire gang might have been captured.

The Jackson " Goad,^' a sheet published with the avowed
purpose of prodding beyond endurance the party then in
power, was especially active in making inquiries about
Wrengell. It gave a highly colored account of the young
man^s sojourn at Ratke's. It dwelt minutely on his reti-
cence respecting his former residence and occupation.
It declared that a man unused to deeds of violence
could never show such nerve and determination as he had
manifested. It related how he had been detained by the
order-loving citizens of Break o'Day, how he had broken
loose from their restraint, knocking them right and left,
how he had fearlessly charged upon and ^driven back a
group of men at the dock, how he had sought an en-
counter with the boats and had done some phenomenally
close shooting at Jong range.

The rfiajor w^^ wrotl^ ^^ ^^^ wrong done his hired man.
He visited Rorus anH talked to him with such sternness



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA V. 199

that the doctor did not as usual reply in a long series of
co-ordinate terms capped by an anti-climax. He told him
that he should hold him responsible for the injury which
Wrengell received, and that if one of his men ever again
was subjected to so much as an affront at the drug-store,
he would administer a personal castigation to its proprietor.
Directly after the appearance of the exaggerated article in
the "Goad" Ratke called on the editor and demanded that
retraction be made at once. The next week the story
was modified ; but after it was shorn of its absolute un-
truths, it still bore strong testimony against Wrengell.

The startling occurrences which agitated Ratke*s neigh-
bors did not keep him from the contemplation of his in-
ventions. He had engaged an Oakville blacksmith to
iron his Jerusalem wagon, which he decided to take in
pieces and put on another vehicle for transportation. As
the several parts were too heavy to be lifted easily by one
man, he ordered Jake to assist him.

** I expect to create a sensation with my wagon in a few
weeksj Jake," said the philosopher. *' If it becomes
famous, you can' boast that you had a hand in preparing
the first perfect model."

"Put this *ere rattletrap in the hind end ?" asked Jake,
as he picked up a pair of wheel-posts, seemingly uncon-
scious of his honorable function.

"Now, Jake," said the major, when he was ready to
start to Oakville, "you may haul the wood which you and
John sawed. I would like to be able to say that my in-
ventions are used to a great extent on my farm. You may
draw the wood with the Old Jerusalem. 1 intend to go
to Jackson, and shall no doubt be gone until five o'clock."

Jake had a special aversion to the products of his em-
ployer's genius. With rebellion in his heart he hitched a
team to the Old Jerusalem. He had driven but a few
rods whfen the reach came unfastened and letting one end
of the box fall to the ground, slid him speedily down the
smooth bottom boards. Many minutes were occupied in
readjusting the detached parts. Impatient of delay, he
climbed on the wagon and spoke sharply to the team, but
the tongue with the whiffletrees was jerked loos?, and he
was nearly pulled from his position by the lines. The last



7

If



J



t



200 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK o'Day.

accident intensified his disgust, which he had before
restrained with difficulty. He hitched the horses to a
pair of trucks, and with this equipment hauled the wood in
the forenoon some hours sooner than the major thought
the woik would be completed.

Ratke, who drove no farther than Oakville, returned to
the farm at eleven o'clock. After caring for his team, he
went to the field where Montcalm was at work.

"Trace," said the major, "that article which you sent

to the Indianapolis "Standard" will greatly benefit me.

P You described my wagon in fine terms. You could never

I have obtained its insertion if you had not once been a

reporter for the paper. Such an account coming from a
distance will make me and my inventions respected more
at home. A great name, to be acquired in one's own
neighborhood, must be imported. We may call this the
endosmose of reputation."

In passing the barns Ratke noticed that the trucks
were not in their accustomed place under a shed. His
anger was kindled at sight of Jake, who was throwing off
his last load of wood from another vehicle than the Old
Jerusalem.

"Jake," said the displeased inventor, hurrying to the
wood-pile, "I told you expressly to use the Old Jerusalem.
Why did you take the trucks t "

"'Cause," replied Sheppard, "I wanted to git done
some time today. I didn't like to fuss."

"I pay you for your time," returned Ratke. *' When
you do as I tell you, it is my lookout if your service is un-
profitable. After this you use the tool I give you to work
with."

"I don't like no such 'rangement as the Jerus'lem,"
rejoined Jake. "The ole thingumbob ain't good for
nothin', an' never was."

"Jake," said the major, "it is not your place to question
the wisdom of my plans. I am quite capable of directing
my own affairs. VVhenever you are unwilling to obey my
insiructiousy you may quit my employ."

'' I guess 1 better Qixit now," said Jake. "We never
liad no \irords till to^J^y. an' we never want none."
/ "^ow "JucA do X \jre yo^ -^" inquired the major.



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK. O' DA Y. 20 1

"You ain't paid me nothin' for two years," answered
Sheppard, "an' there's some back that I earnt afore
that."

"Is that so ?" ejaculated the major, ashamed that he
was unable to pay his discharged hired man. "I will get
it for you as soon as I can, Jake."

"They gener'ly make reckonin' on payin' a man when
they ship him," said Jake, "but you needn't be in no hurry
about it. I'll let you know when I want it."

"Never mind throwing off the wood," said the major.
"Come in to dinner. I will have Mark take care of the
team."


