more care on his personal appearance than he would
have bestowed had nature made such attention more
necessary.

The stranger with few preliminaries made an application
for work. To this proposal Ratke did not immediately
reply. He gave his own name and requested the young
man to do likewise.

"My name is Montcalm," said the stranger, with a
smile which at once won the major's heart.

"Montcalm," exclaimed the major; "that is the name
of one of my comrades in the army."

"My father held the rank of captain in the Mexican
war," said Montcalm. "I am the heir to his given name,
which was Traceworth."

Instantly the major was shaking him by the hand." Is
he alive? Is he well? Where does he live?" were his
ejaculations.

"He died fifteen years ago," answered Montcalm, "at
his home in Cortland, New York."

"He was a noble fellow," said the major, "and his
sword was one of the best in the brigade. General Taylor,
in his official report, made special mention of him for
bravery in the battle of Resaca de la Palma. I was by
his side during the engagement, and I, like the rest of the
men, noticed his impetuosity, though I had little time to
watch my comrades. It always seemed as if he ought to
have been promoted, but justice is not in every case meted
out in this world. Did you ever hear him speak of me?"

"I have heard him mention his comrades in the army,
but I have forgotten their names," answered Montcalm.
"I was young when he died."

"We first got acquainted in the Black-Hawk war," said
the old man." He was generally good-natured, but he
had a terrible temper and was very set in his way. I
have suspected that that was one thing which kept him
from rising in the service. One night on Wisconsin River,
after we had been chasing Black-Hawk all day, the
mosquitos were very thick. Some of the boys rolled and
tumbled and some swore. As I was exposing first one
part of my face and then another, to see if there was not
some place the pests had less relish for, I heard a
threshing so regular that I knew whoever was making it meant
to push hostilities to the last, and when I looked, I saw
Trace sitting up and striking as deliberately as he would
plan a compaign. But it was a wicked vindictiveness,
and when the lieutenant laughed at him, he wanted to
fight.

"His set ways came near getting him into trouble once.
It was at the last battle in the Wisconsin territory. The
Indians had been beaten and were swimming across a
slough, bucks, pappooses and squaws all splashing around
together. We had orders to fire on them from the bank.

"Trace told me he thought it was a hard sight, and he
would fire, but he would take care the bullets did not hit
anybody. Most of the Indians were shot down before
they got across. One old buck turned back to help a
squaw, probably his own, to get her pappoose to shore.
Trace and I wanted to have that old fellow get clear; but I
while we were congratulating ourselves that he stood a
little chance, Ben Rogers, right close by, drew a careful
bead on him. Now, Ben was the best shot in the regiment,
and my heart went down in my boot-heels, but
Trace jostled him just as he fired. Well, Ben was mad.
He threatened to report, and if he had. Trace might have
got court-martialed, but he never did. Trace's jostling
did no good, however. The old buck fell, going over
the bluff on the other side. How long before dinner,
Maria?"

"About three-quarters of an hour," answered Mrs.
Grippin with unaccustomed good-nature. "I'll ring the
bell when it's time, and I ought to have a load of wood,
James."

"All right," responded the major. "Show Trace his
room. I must call you Trace on your father's account,
for it is a luxury to address his son as I did him. We
will make no bargain till after dinner."

After bringing in the wood, Ratke waited a few minutes
for Montcalm's appearance. At the end of that period
Montcalm came from the bedroom, wearing a suit of plain
clothes and a pair of stoga boots. Even this dress did
not give him the air of a farmer, which he had evidently
sought to assume. His hands, soft and white, indicated
that he was unacquainted with muscular toil; and his
whole aspect and demeanor, in ways not easily described,
pointed to the same conclusion. There was in his address
something which was peculiarly winning, and which would
have fascinated Ratke without the assistance of the
veteran's friendship for his old comrade.

"Why, you have made a farmer of yourself," said the
major. "No, you have only tried to. Well, suppose we
look around a little before dinner. Go to work now? No,
sir, not a stroke do you do till one o'clock;" and, leading
the way, the master of the domain passed out to a survey
of the farm; but Mrs. Grippin called him back to take
from her table the pile of dirt intended as the basis of his
mathematical calculations.


CHAPTER II.
THE NEW JERUSALEM.

Montcalm observed that part of the estate which was
open to his view. The white wrap of winter was nearly
worn out, but here and there islands and peninsulas of
snow glimmered in isolated stations from the somberer
areas of lately uncovered earth, or stretched away in
varying and grotesquely formed curves to join the more
protected strips along the fences. The cultivated land on
that side of the road was enclosed in semicircular shape,
and a strip of timber extended from the swamp to a point
northwest of the house, as if starting out to cut the
improvements in twain, and afterward repenting of its
design. At the western end it terminated in a patch of
shrubs over which could be seen the tops of the statelier
trees beyond. To the east the hardwood timber, mostly
of oak, skirted, till it nearly reached the road, along the
marsh which bordered the great swamp. The only signs
of vegetable life which were visible to Montcalm were in
the spruce and pine, which could be distinguished from
the tamaracks by their evergreen branches.

With the major discoursing volubly as they went along,
the two men passed to the barns. These were three in
number. The largest, ornamented on the top with three
cupolas and a prancing horse, was the center from the
extremities of which branched the others, nearly forming
a yard, which was completed by a connecting fence.

A discourse, which his biographer has not taken the
trouble to find, was given by the major on the character
and phrenology of each beast: on the horse which would
threaten but never kick, on the one which would kick but
never threaten, on the cow which would jump from good
to poor pasture for the mere satisfaction of being unruly,
and on several others which would jump from poor to
good pasture for obvious reasons.

"Here is the finest animal I have," said the major, laying
his hand on the hip of a horse with a long foretop and
a fine head and ears. "Zachary Taylor, probably the
best blooded horse in the county. Taylor went in two
fifty-nine when he was four, just previous to his purchase
by me. He ought to beat that by twenty seconds now,
but I have let Maria and Manie drive him. Next summer
nobody except myself shall hold a rein over him. Taylor,
old boy, you want an ear of corn? You have not seen my
machine shop," said the animated old man, opening the
door of a building at the west end of the group of barns.
"Are you interested in machinery?"

"I have an interest in progress," answered Montcalm,
"but little knowledge of mechanics."

A practical machinist would have had much difficulty
in classifying the various specimens of constructive talent
hanging on the walls and strewn in chaos about the floor.
Old reapers, clocks, fanning mills and threshing machines
had been dissected to furnish material for wild inventive
schemes, more than half of which had been left unfinished.
A strange looking wagon had in an unusual degree the
merit of originality. Each wheel, six feet high, revolved
on a peg set between two upright posts. These posts
were connected at the top so that the vehicle had no axle-
tree. Two boxes suspended from the posts, and about
two and one half feet in height, were joined together by
an attachment underneath.

"A revolution in road vehicles is coming," began the
major." The days of hard pulling and breaking horses'
legs by blows from the tongue are almost over. You can
see at once that this wagon must have a light draught.
The attachment of the tongue down low lessens the rolling
friction on the ground, and the six-foot wheel does a
great deal to lessen the sliding friction on the axle. Let
me make that plain. The passage of the wheel along the
ground is called friction, but I question its right to the
definition. One molecule is planted on the ground and
rests there until another takes its place, when it rises and
a second particle becomes the pivotal point, to be succeeded
by the third, fourth and so on. The only friction
then is in the adhesion of the surfaces as the upper one
is planted down and removed; a great difference, you
observe, from that which comes from passing parallel with
the surface of a body. But that at the point of the
revolutionary pivot is different. Here the wheel is continually
scraping over the axle, a resistance which it requires
much more force to overcome. A six-foot wheel revolves
every -- let me see -- every six multiplied by three and one
thousand and four hundred and sixteen ten-thousandths,"
and the major began to figure on the wall, "every time it
goes eighteen and eight thousand four hundred and
ninety-six ten-thousandth's feet. A four-and-one-half-foot
wheel revolves, I'll tell you in a moment -- every time it
goes fourteen and one thousand three hundred and
seventy-two ten-thousandth's feet. The smaller wheels,
having a swifter movement at the pivot, occasion a greater
amount of friction."

Montcalm, though tortured by the tedious harangue,
practiced his well learned art of flattery by attention, and
tipped his head on one side with an air of gravest concern.

"If I had it in shape," pursued the major, "we would
hitch on and try it, but it is not ironed yet, and it has cost
me too much labor to use it up recklessly."

Montcalm hastened to protest against the sacrifice to
his curiosity of an invention which had cost so much labor
of hand and brain. He was anxious, very anxious, to see
the wagon tested, but he begged the major on no account
to subject it to a trial until it was properly ironed and
fitted for running.

"I'll tell you what we can do," suggested the major.
"Get in and let me draw you, and we will try its draught."

To this proposal Montcalm objected, but he volunteered
to act as horse while the major rode. Accordingly the inventor
seated himself in the product of his genius, which
Montcalm drew back and forth, praising the lightness of
its draught and suppressing the grunts whose utterance
would have belied his statement.

When Montcalm's energy began to flag, the major inquired,
"You do not know the name of the wagon, do you, Trace?"

"No, I was wondering about that," answered Montcalm;
"it seems to me an ancient name would be proper, some
kind of chariot, -- Pharaoh's chariot for instance."

"No," said the major, shaking his head and clambering
from the vehicle," I call it the New Jerusalem."

"What induced you to call it that?" asked Montcalm.
"Was it the splendor of the ornaments you mean to put
on or some reason which I do not comprehend?"

"Well," answered the major, purposely keeping his
auditor in suspense," it is a long history. Some years
ago there was, over across the swamp, an old man by the
name of Barrow, an out-and-out Adventist. He said the
world was coming to an end before long. He could not
tell exactly when, but it could not be longer than '69, and
he could prove it by the prophecies in fourteen different
ways. He used to go up and down the road to Break o'Day,
and to the neighbors' houses, without a hat, always
with the same strain, 'Babylon is fallen, is fallen.' A
quarter of the topers and loafers who hung around Rorus's
drug-store were scared into leaving off an occasional spree,
and the other three-quarters had some fun repeating his
prophecies about the restoration of the Jews. One day
he came bareheaded out to the barn, where my men and I
were looking over the old wagon, the first one I invented,
and he began:

"'The world's going to burn -- going to burn up, I tell
you. The time of the Gentiles is fulfilled. Babylon the
great is fallen, is fallen' (the old man always talked fast),
'and is become the habitation of devils, and the hold of
every foul spirit, and a cage of every unclean and hateful
bird. For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath
of her fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed
fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth
are waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies.
Come out of her, my people. The Jews are to be gathered
to Jerusalem.

"'When will the great day come?" For the day of vengeance
is in mine heart and the year of my redeemed is come.

"'"From the time that the daily sacrifice shall be taken
away, and the abomination that maketh desolate set up,
there shall be a thousand two hundred and ninety days."

'"'That which the palmer-worm hath left hath the locust
eaten; and that which the locust hath left hath the cankerworm
eaten; and that which the canker-worm hath left hath the
caterpillar eaten.'

'"'We've had the caterpillar and the grasshopper and the
potato-bug and the weevil. Describes it exactly.

'"'And the desolate land shall be tilled, whereas it lay
desolate in the sight of all that passed by.'

"'Jerusalem has been so they couldn't raise a thing there,
not a thing, and now they're raising wheat. Wheat in
Jerusalem! They sent a thrashing machine there last year.

"'We've got to turn in with the Jews and go to Jerusalem.
Never mind your wagon, Ratke. You better make a Jerusalem
wagon.'

"Well, the idea struck my men so forcibly that they
dubbed it the Jerusalem wagon, and the name always stuck
by it. I like it well enough myself, and so after I made
the second one, to distinguish between them, I called it
the New Jerusalem."

It is as yet an unsolved problem how long the old man
would have continued the recital of these reminiscences
had he not been interrupted by a strange clamor from near
the house. The noise seemed to be produced by the
strokes of some metallic object against a steel plate, which
had a resonance sufficient to make the sound continuous.

"Dinner!" exclaimed the major.

As the men left the machine shop, the cause of the commotion
was apparent to Montcalm. Mrs. Grippin, with
the energy characteristic of all her actions, was using a
two-foot iron bar to belabor a long upright saw suspended
from an apple-tree, and that superannuated piece of
machinery was protesting against the punishment with
the most doleful lamentations.

"You have not expressed your opinion of my bell.
Trace," said the major.

"It has a very powerful voice," commented Montcalm.

"Make an estimate of the cost of that bell," said the
major.

"Ten dollars," suggested Montcalm.

"No."

"Twenty-five dollars."

"No."

"I give it up," said Montcalm.

"I calculate that that bell cost me about ten thousand
dollars," said the major, watching his companion to note
the effect of his words.

"Indeed!" exclaimed Montcalm, manifesting the proper
amount of surprise. "How is that?"

"That is the old upright saw which used to be in McGraw's
mill," said the major. "I got it for one dollar,
and, in less than a month, I had the plan for a drag-saw
for small logs that was ahead of any invention which had
been projected up to that date, for it was to take only two
horses. One day, about noon, I heard a hubbub loud
enough to wake the nations, and when I got where it was,
I found Maria pounding the edge of that saw just as she
is doing now. See how viciously she strikes, as if she
were bent on destroying the last vestige of its usefulness.
She had banged the teeth so much that using it afterwards
was wholly put of the question. I always suspected that
she did it on purpose to defeat my plan. And she did.
I turned my attention to the old Jerusalem, and before I
did anything more with the saw, a Wisconsin lumberman
had the start of me. If all people were like her, this
would be an unprogressive world."

On entering the house, the veteran found awaiting him
a visitor, whom Mrs. Grippin introduced as follows:

"James, here is a man that wants work."

The major made mental observations on the capacity
of the new-comer for labor.

The young fellow, who was not niore than twenty-two
years old, gave his name as John Wrengell. His stature
was above the common height, but his form was not Stocky.
He had Saxon blue eyes, light brown hair and the sensitive
nature which accompanies the nervous temperament.
The evidence of a strong character was visible in his
well-shaped head, his expressive countenance and his
intelligent, though embarrassed speech.

The introduction to the ladies exhibited a vast difference
between Montcalm and Wrengell. Montcalm bowed
with a courtesy which was at once easy and pleasing.

Wrengell blushed, mispronounced one name, half mumbled
the other, and in sitting down overturned with a
backward sweep of his arm the heap of dirt so much
doted on by the major.

Miss Warfle with much difficulty repressed her mirth,
and the old officer with still more trouble kept back his
irritation from open expression.

"There, James," exclaimed Mrs. Grippin, who arrived
on the scene just in time to see the sand and gravel
scattered over the floor." There, I told you you'd have
that thing tipped over. Can't you bring in dirt enough
on your boots without lugging it in in a heap to make me
sweep up?"

"I thought," responded the major, "that my model
hill would keep its line of direction within its base, and that
its cohesion would not be acted upon by external forces
sufficiently to destroy it. My clay mound stayed here
two weeks, and it constantly maintained a preponderance
of attractive over repulsive forces, but clay possesses
more viscosity than sand."

"Viscosity," repeated Mrs. Grippin in disgust. "Now
you've got on one of your high-sounding strains. Can't
you talk so anybody can understand you? Who ever
heard of viscosity?"

"It is a mortifying fact," said the major, putting a degree
of solemnity into his voice," that I have a sister who
does not know the meaning of viscosity. It is derived
from the Latin viscum. Viscum, viscositas; French, viscosite;
Provencal, viscositat; Spanish, viscosidad; Portuguese, vis"

"'What do we care about your viscos and viscovuses?"
retorted Mrs. Grippin. "When you talk common English,
folks give you credit for some sense, but when you
try to show off so smart, everybody is disgusted with you."

The approach of the hired men was now heralded by
the confused hum of voices, varied now and then by a
boisterous laugh. When they had taken their turns at
the wash-dishes, the towel and the looking-glass, they
passed to the dining-room.


CHAPTER III.

A GLIMPSE OF FARM SERVICE.

The farmhouse had been built in the days of Ratke's
prosperity. It was gothic in design and had three principal
rooms -- the sitting-room, the dining-room and the
parlor.

On the northern side, and extending to the kitchen at
the eastern extremity of the dwelling, was a tier of
bedrooms and closets. Not satisfied with the half-dozen
sleeping apartments in the row alluded to and several
more in the chamber, the major had provided for the
construction, on the side facing the street, of two more
bedrooms which, jutting inwardly, formed a narrow hall
between the sitting-room and the parlor.

The main divisions of the house were inappropriately
named, or, at least, not named according to the uses to
which they were put. The dining-room served much as
a sitting-room, the sitting-room on account of its superior
warmth was used in cold weather as a dining-room, and
the parlor, which contained the organ and the library in
four bookcases, was almost daily used by the family. It
is true that this subversion of common usage was much
censured by Mrs. Grippin, but there were, as we have
seen, on this estate and in this household, certain evils
which even she was powerless to remedy.

There were seated around the extension table thirteen
persons, the resident family of four, six hired men, two
prospective ones, and the agent, who was called Panicky,
and whom the major had easily persuaded to stay to
dinner.

"Major," said a fellow whose name was Brown, "how
is it when you're shooting birds on the wing? Do you
want to aim straight at 'em or a little ahead?"

"A little ahead, to be sure," replied Ratke, and, laying
down his knife and fork, he gave a discourse of five
minutes on the principles of absolute and relative motion.

"There, Wingscheut," exclaimed Brown," the reason
you didn't hit the quail was because you aimed straight
at her."

"Tat ain't te reason at all," answered a tall German
with dark hair and a fringe of whiskers running underneath
his chin." I aim't chust as you tolt me an' tat's
te reason I titn't hit 'im."

"Will," asked the major, "did you take good care of
Taylor?"

"I fed him and curried him off," replied Archer, the
man whom Ratke addressed.

"Yes," said the German, in the loud tone he had previously
used, "unt, if it hatn't a peen for me, you
vootn't a hat no Taylor."

"How is that, Wingscheut?" queried the major.

"Veil, you see," began Wingscheut, "las' night I vass
sleepin' in te clup-house. Unt, chust apout tvelf o'clock,
I heert te parn toor co skveak. Veil, I know provitin' te
toor co skveak, somepoty pe tere. Veil, I sit up. Unt I
co out py te tool-house. Ven te toor stop, I stop. Veil,
ven te toor co skveak, I co on. Pimepy te toor go
skveak acin, unt two tam horse-tiefs, tey come out vith
Taylor. Unt tey vass pic fellers, piccern ole Chon
Tafis.

"Veil, ten I come out from te tool-house. Unt I
catched poth of 'em hiplock, von on von hip unt von on
te otter. Unt I trowet 'em. Unt I pountet 'em till tey
hat te sorest faces. Provitin' you hatn't a peen asleep so
sount as you couldn't vake, you voot a heert 'em yell."

"Why didn't you hold 'em when you had 'em?" asked
Jake Sheppard, the oldest and most trusty of the hands.

"Veil, you see," answered Wingscheut, "Taylor he gits
avay. Unt he runs up te roat. Unt I titn't vant to lose
a horse vat vass vorth a tousan' tollars for two tam
horsetiefs vat vass goot for notting at all. So I coes on
after Taylor. Provitin' you ton't pelieve me, I can show you
vere tey lay."

"Wingscheut give 'em sore faces, for I saw him," whispered
a solemn-looking young man from the lower end of the table.

Every one present listened to this confirmation of
Wingscheut's doubtful veracity.

"Veil, you see," continued Daggett, the voiceless young
man, mocking the German's peculiar accent, "Vingscheut
unt me, ve kilt te tam horsie-tiefs, unt ve took teir scalps.
Unt four more tam horse-tiefs, tey come up to git Taylor.
Unt Vingscheut catched two of 'em hiplock. Unt I
catched two of 'em hiplock. Unt ve kilt 'em. Unt ve
took teir scalps. Unt ve vent on to te svamp. Unt ve
fount sixteen more tam horse-tiefs. Unt ve kilt 'em. Unt
ve took teir scalps. Unt, provitin' you ton't pelieve it,
ve can show you te scalps."

When Wingscheut had mastered his disgust and an immense
mouthful of beefsteak, he said:

"' Provitin' I vass such a liar as tat, I voot crawl off in
a holler loc unt tie."

"How do you get along with the one-man saw, Jake? "
queried the major.

"Back aches like time," answered Sheppard, drawing
his hand along his spine.

"That is strange," observed Ratke. "The one-man
saw is certainly a great saving of labor. It allows you,
instead of stooping over, or dropping your hands by your
side, to push toward the log straight from the shoulder.
The motory power is in the muscles of the shoulder and
upper arm; and this power, the hand and the saw, should
be as nearly as possible in a straight line. The common
cross-cut, as it is worked, with the hands on a level with
the hips, is a lever of the third class, power in the center,
fulcrum at one end and weight at the other. In this lever
there is a gain of motion and a corresponding loss of
power. But, as to the loss of motion in the one-man saw,
that can be easily made up by a swaying movement of the
body."

At the conclusion of the meal Wrengell and Montcalm
hired out for the summer, Wrengell getting twenty dollars
per month, and Montcalm, out of consideration for Ratke's
friendship for his father, receiving twenty-five dollars.
Montcalm stayed in the house, conversing with the major,
while the rest of the hired men, together with the vender
of medicine, or Panicky, went to the club-house.

This building was a two-story upright, whose dimensions
were thirty-two by thirty-six feet. On the ground
floor were three bedrooms and one larger apartment,
which contained a clock with an alarm, a table, a stove,
common chairs, rocking-chairs and all the furniture
necessary for the comfortable accommodation of a family.

Panicky surmised that Archer was bilious, that Sheppard
had lumbago, and assured Daggett that all he needed
for the complete restoration of his voice was a bottle of
Great American Panacea. By a series of harangues on
individual complaints, followed by an eloquent exordium,
he sold a bottle of the panacea to the hands, of whom all,
except Wingscheut, contributed equally to the purchase-money.

"Well, boys," said Jake Sheppard, "'m a-goin' to
work."

"Oh! there ain't no hurry," declared Archer; "the
major he wouldn't say anything if we didn't go for an
hour yet."

"Maybe he wouldn't say nothin'," replied Jake, "but
right's right, an' loafin' roun' when you're paid to work
ain't right."

The major sat watching the departure of his nieces,
who were about to drive his trotter, Taylor, to Break O'Day;
The girls were passing a small house not far from the swamp.

The preceding spring Philetus Takum had come to
Ratke with a piteous appeal for help. He had been
turned out of doors by his landlord, and left without
shelter for himself and his family.

The major, against the remonstrances of his household
erected a tenement house near the swamp and put it into
the possession of Takum. But . Philetus proved a disappointment
to his benefactor. Not only did he neglect
to pay the promised rent, but he circulated some annoying
untruths and many more annoying truths concerning
Ratke and his mortgaged estate.

The most valuable of Takum's personal property was a
mongrel shepherd dog which bore the name of Lina.

Next in value were two of her full-grown progeny, which
Philetus kept, for he had made many a solemn declaration
that he would not sell a pup for less than one dollar, and
he had been offered for the largest one only eighty-five
cents. Mrs. Grippin declared that the dogs ate eggs, and
that their master had an equal fondness for stolen
chickens.

Ratke was sitting, as was his wont in meditation, with
his left leg thrown over the arm of his rocking-chair, his
elbow on his knee and his head resting on his hand. Left
to himself, he plunged deeply into his philosophical
studies. His mind was clear, his absorption complete.
The principles of nature's mighty phenomena, enlarging
in scope and simplifying in form, passed one by one before
his vision with clearness and majesty; and, as he
thought, more than ever showed the harmony of natural
and mental philosophy.

He became conscious that something was drawing him
away from his delightful reverie. Some external circumstance
was tugging at his attention, which still clung
tenaciously to the theories which he was formulating.
Reluctantly he dropped his hand and threw his left leg
from the arm of the rocking-chair, when he heard the
voice of Mrs. Grippin calling from the chamber,

"James, James."

"Yes," returned the major, throwing his leg back to its
favorite position.

"James, James," cried Mrs. Grippin, more loudly than
before.

"All right," responded Ratke.

"But it isn't all right," said the housekeeper. "Come
up here, and you'll see that it's all wrong."

"I suppose I must go," thought the major. "Maria is
a continuous force, which, though exercising a slight
amount of influence per unit of time, in the lapse of concrete
time brings to bear a stress, the total amount of
which is enormous."

When he entered the chamber, Mrs. Grippin was standing
on a box by a north window, from which she was
endeavoring to obtain a view of the woods where the men
were at work.

"I can't see many of them," she said. "There is the
new man you like so well with the one-man saw. See
how he has to pull! It looks as though it would break
his back. He's got that swaying motion of the body you
tell so much about. I guess nobody would pull that thing
through a log without swaying the body."

"If that is all you want of me," remarked the major,
"I will go down."

"I think some of the men are shirking," said Mrs.
Grippin. "The woods are in the way so I can't see them.
You'd better go down where they are."

"I do not like to appear suspicious of them," the major
remonstrated. "Does it not please you to know that
others have confidence in you?"

"Yes, confidence in everybody," answered Mrs. Grippin;
"that's the trouble with you. Men consult their own
interest and they don't work hard for other folks unless
they have to."

"Why," ejaculated Ratke, "you are advocating the
principles of 'Elementa Philosophica de Cive.'"

"What do I care what you call it?" returned Mrs.
Grippin." I tell you, you can't trust folks in that way
without watching them."

"Bolder yet!" exclaimed the major. "Now you are
branching off on the Leviathan. I never thought you
would be a Hobbist, Maria."

"Do I have any more hobbies than you do," furiously
retorted the housekeeper; "you, with your nonsense that
nobody else can stand? I'd talk about hobbies."

"No, no, Maria," mildly expostulated the major. "A
Hobbist means---"

"I don't care what it means," interrupted Mrs. Grippin.
"James Ratke, if you don't go down there I won't get a
morsel of dinner for your men. Now, you can understand.
You can do just as you like."

"I can go for the sake of peace," said the major, with
a sigh.

When he started from the house, he was looking over
the tops of some tamaracks at the right of his destination,
which he meant to reach by means of the path leading to
the woods. Now it is unlikely that anything in the tamaracks
interested him, if at that time he was conscious of
their existence. Whatever the cause of his abstraction,
it had the effect of taking him far out of his intended
course. Nor was he aware of the deviation until he was
confronted by the thick growth of bushes, which, to enter,
he had to part with his hands. Suspending temporarily
his meditations, he came upon a path which ran trans-
versely through the shrubs, and which crossed at right
angles the one which he had intended to follow.

He proceeded along this path and stopped near a
broken tree whose upper portion, lying on the ground,
was hidden from him by the standing stub. Glancing
around and satisfying himself that he was not observed
he said slowly and emphatically,

"Proposition I.: The will of man has the power of
independent decision.

"Proposition II. : All external forces acting upon the
will are persuasive and not coercive." Here the major
paused and spatted his hands with great emphasis.

"Proposition III. : Whenever in---"

There was a rustling in the bushes followed by a succession
of very rapid and heavy blows from an ax. Going
around the stub, the major came upon Archer, who was
working at a rate which, had it been maintained, would
soon have cut down the patch of grubs so circumscribing
to the observations of Mrs. Grippin. It is impossible to
tell which one of the two was most embarrassed, the hired
man who had been sleeping on the fallen tree or his employer
who had been caught in what would generally be
considered a very foolish soliloquy.

Each felt that he had drawn the unpleasant attention
of his companion, and each consequently gave no heed
to the weakness of the other.

The major was the first to speak.

"You are knocking them down at a great rate. Will."

"Yes," answered Archer, springing toward a sapling,
which he felled at a few tremendous strokes.

"I would not heat myself too much," protested the
major. "There are other days coming."

"Got to earn our money," returned Archer, rushing
at another sapling.

"It seems to me," remarked the major, "that one
making such violent exertions as you are would be
encumbered by two coats and a jacket."

"Ain't had time to take 'em off yet," explained Archer,
as he threw aside his superfluous clothing. "Whew, but
it's warm!"

"I think I will go over where the boys are," observed
the major. "I only hear one saw there."

Archer, clearing his throat, struck up a fragment of a
song, whose pitch to the end was not more than a note
higher or lower than the one with which it commenced.

    "There was a man in days of old,
    He had a daughter as I've been told;
    And this daughter, she had a lover
    Who was not liked much by her mother."

At the conclusion of the doggerel strain, the woods were
ringing with life. A saw vibrated more energetically than
the one which Ratke had first heard, and several axes
were swung so rapidly as to produce almost a clatter.

"Right at it," remarked the major, as he neared the
spot where Brown and Daggett were sawing. "I see
that there are a great many ergs of work in my men."

Daggett's hard sawing, by which he had sought to lull
the major's suspicion, resulted in a fit of violent coughing,
and he was obliged to seat himself on a log and wait until
the paroxysm had passed.

"That is a bad cough, boy," said the major, "and you
are making it worse by getting heated."

"Oh, I'm all right," returned Daggett.

"No, you are in a bad condition," contradicted the
major." I insist that you take a more moderate gait. I
do not wish you to exhaust your energy before the
commencement of the summer's work. I must go up where
Trace is now."

"Hanged if I ain't ashamed," commented Daggett,
when the major had gone out of hearing. "Here we've
been playing off all we could, and the first thing we know
he comes around and tells us to go slower. I half believe
that, if I was well, I'd pitch in and work decent for the
old fellow."

"Oh, no, you wouldn't," returned Brown. "You
wouldn't like that any better than you do now. We
didn't have much warning, did we? Will got asleep. He
must of. An' it wasn't the square thing to do."

"No, it wasn't," affirmed Daggett, forgetting his
resolution to be industrious. "We'll get even with him for
that. Go up and tell him the captain demands his immediate
presence."

Archer, whose craving for sleep had been nearly satisfied
by indulgence, was not loth to leave his position as
sentinel. Such a summons was usually the forerunner of
sport, and he believed, from the direct manner in which
Daggett had sent for him, that, for the coming amusement,
he was not to pay the reckoning.

But the discontented looks of the men gave token that
they were not in the best of humor, while by their frequent
glances toward him he was warned that he was the
object of their dissatisfaction.

"Well, boys," he called out, "has the old man gone?
I done my duty as a sentinel, didn't I ? I warned you."

"Yes, you did warn us," said Daggett in a whisper
which was almost vocalization, "after the boss had got
here. That was a great way to do."

"I didn't see him," explained Archer, "until he got
right onto me. And the first thing I knew I heard him
getting off some of his philosophy trash."

"You vass sleepin'," asserted Wingscheut. "Tat vass
a mean trick. Provitin' I cootn't vake up a little vile, I
voot co to pet."

"Take him to the guard-house," ordered Daggett.

Archer was seized, and, despite his struggles and
threats, thrown to the ground, when the men began to
cover him with brush. Whenever he attempted to rise,
he was pushed back; and, as soon as he threw aside a
bush, it was succeeded by another. So, realizing the
uselessness of further resistance, he lay still and was
at once completely hidden by a quantity of limbs.

"Helloa, boys, here comes the major!" exclaimed
Daggett. "Lay low, Will, till he goes. It won't be
long."

"That rate would pile all the brush there is here in a
short time," remarked the major, as he stood among the
men. "It is a good plan, too, to complete the work as
you go. Here are some limbs which have lain so long
that they have been grown over by sod. Pile on those
old poles while you are about it."

Thereupon, to Daggett's delight and Archer's dismay,
the major brought a log larger than any of the hands
could carry, and placed it upon the brush-heap, which
was already large.

"Have any of you a match?" inquired the major. "I
believe I will fire this heap."

The men looked at each other in alarm.

"No, we haven't," answered Daggett.

"Why, I have one," said Ratke. "Now let us get
some of these dry leaves together and we may make it
burn."

"It will not go," remarked the major, as the flame
flickered and died out. "If I had another match, I could
start it. "Now, boy, come up and get something for
that cough."

"Oh, I don't want anything for that," returned Daggett."
That will be all right when it comes warm weather."

"We must attend to it now," urged Ratke.

"No, I guess I won't go," said Daggett, feeling very
uneasy at this manifestation of his employer's kindness.

"What, mutiny?" exclaimed the major, putting his
arm around the young man and dragging him along.
"You see that you have no option in the matter."

Daggett noticed that the major made no remark about
Archer's disappearance. He had a suspicion that the
philosopher, even when he was showing him such marks
of kindness, understood the faithlessness of him and his
fellows. Looking back as he was passing through the
shrubs, he saw a head of wavy black hair emerging from
a brush-heap and a fist shaken viciously toward him, but
he kept the discovery to himself.


CHAPTER IV.

A CIRRUS BECOMES A NIMBUS.

"Did you get me any letters, Manie?" asked Ratke
as he met his nieces, who were coming from the barns.

"Two of them," answered Manie.

"Maria," said Ratke, when they were in the dining-room,
"get Mark something for his cough. I am going into the
sitting-room to read my letters."

The first missive which the major opened bore a Washington
postmark and read as follows:


    Washington, D. C, March 4, 187-
    Mr. J. Ratke,
   
    Break o'Day, Mich.
    Dear Sir:-- As the commissioner expresses doubt concerning
    the practical value of your invention, I find it is difficult
    to obtain a patent. I must receive fifty dollars before I
    proceed further.
   
    Respectfully yours,
   
    F. B. Sackeit.


"The leech!" muttered the major; "he would gorge
himself with my substance. But let me once get my
Jerusalem wagon started, and I will bid defiance to patent
lawyers and creditors. What do I care for the few drops
the insect gets if their place will soon be supplied by
a liberal infusion which will send vigor through my
veins?"

The contents of the second letter are given below.


    Jackson, Mich., March 4, 187-.
    Mr. J. Ratke,
   
    Break o'Day, Mich.
    Dear Sir: We spoke to Mr. Green about the matter which you
    mentioned. He says he cannot postpone the foreclosure of the
    mortgage a day.
   
    Yours respectfully,
   
    Collins & Joy.


The effect of the two communications was to produce
an unwonted depression in the major's spirits. It
was as if a cloud of whose existence he had been not
ignorant, but to which he had been inattentive, had


