
It was at this juncture that he heard Wingscheut
proclaiming that he had captured the horse-thief. He was
at a loss to account for the circumstance. Madge T. had
certainly raced by him, but behind the low-hanging bushes
he had not ascertained whether Philetus were on her back,
although he had had no suspicion that such was not the
case. He laid hold of a strong stick which had been used
to knock walnuts from the tree, before he decided on his
course of action, but all doubts as to the cause of the
outcry were at an end when Wingscheut again called Sparks
to come and kill the horse-thief.

Whatever were the faults of Montcalm, he was not the
one to desert an ally. Assuring himself that his revolver
was ready for use, he sprang upon the back of the horse
and dashed up the drive, through a gate which had been
left open by Sparks, and around the corner of the barn.

The Sparkses, happening to look up in season, fled
before what they supposed to be a rescue of cavalry,
effecting their retreat through a second gate which led
into the lane. Wingscheut, intent on pounding Panicky
and unwarned by the muffled hoofs of the horse, which
made but little noise, did not realize his danger until
communication with the house and with his employer
was cut off. He was frightened at the prospect of
receiving the violence which he was anxious to mete out
to another, and he limped around the straw-stack with a
speed which was, for a man who had a crippled leg, almost
phenomenal. His terror did not find vent in words until
Montcalm raced up and struck him several blows with his
cudgel, when he exclaime:

"Ton't kill a man vat ain't to plame! Warum schlagst
du mich? Was hab' ich gethan? I ain't tone notting!
Te teffil, I ain't tone notting!"

Montcalm, satisfied that those whom he had dispersed
would not soon organize for pursuit, turned his horse by
a considerable effort and rode back to Panicky, who,
satchels in hand, was preparing to leave the locality, which
had for him no pleasant recollections. "Here," said
Montcalm, unable distinctly to see the man whom he had
rescued, and supposing him to be Philetus, "jump on
quick and ride away."

"I don't believe I care to ride," answered Panicky.

"What!" ejaculated Montcalm. "Who are you ?"

The marauder leaped on his horse, from which he had
dismounted, and was instantly flying down the drive. His
perplexity over the incident at the straw-stack did not
abate when he found Takum waiting at the appointed
place.

"Oh! Mr. Montcalm," whispered Philetus, "I was
afraid they'd caught you. I heard 'em sayin' they'd got
the horse-thief and they was a-goin' to kill 'im. This ain't
hookin' chickens. We better be gittin' right out o' here."

"There is no hurry," replied Montcalm. "They are
no more anxious to find us than we are to find them.
Drive your horse out to the side of the road, and we will
trot along. Did you see any one around the barn or
strawstack?"


"Nary a body," said Takum. "Can't you touch up
your horse, Mr. Montcalm? Caesar! how this mare pulls.
I can't hold her. 'Twouldn't do for us to git far apart.
They'd git away with us sure."

"I will try to keep so close to you that you can protect
me," Montcalm answered.

"That's just what I'll do," said Takum. "I'll stick
closer'n a brother. Less see if ther's any run in these
horses."

"We will stop here," said Montcalm, as they came to a
wood at the end of the road. "Let down the fence. Be
careful," he cautioned, as Takum threw the rails right
and left.

"They're a-gittin' the neighbors out!" whispered
Philetus. "That's Sparkses boy. Just hear him yell!
Less light out!"

"They will not be here under half an hour," said Montcalm
"We must put up this fence or they will track us."

The wood was here easy of access. It had been used as
a picnic ground and had been consequently cleared of
underbrush. "Most of the trees were white oaks, the limbs
of which, unadorned, save by newly sprouted leaves,
admitted the direct rays of the stars and the diffused
light of the rising moon, though that luminary was not yet
visible above the tree tops. Farther along the slope which
the plunderers and their booty were descending, the trees
were taller, closer together and covered with a more
luxuriant growth of leaves. The boundary between the
forest and the great swamp was formed by a strip of small
ash and poplars, through which led, here and there, a
path.

Ordering Takum to hold the horses, Montcalm went
into the bushes and soon reappeared with two pairs of
high rubber boots.

"Hello," exclaimed Takum, who was beginning to lose
his apprehension of pursuit, "how did you know them
boots was there?"

"It is no bad thing to be good at guessing," said
Montcalm. "Strip off your cowhides and put on a pair,
for you will need them. After we get through this
thicket, we will ride till we come to the high bushes."

They rode easily through low brush and the belt of
water, which at the edge reached nearly to the horses'
bodies, but which grew shallow as they proceeded. When
they came to the high bushes, however, the brutes refused
to proceed farther. Montcalm tied the colt, removed the
pads from the feet of the animals, and led Madge T.,
while Philetus was ordered to urge her from the rear.
Sparks' trotter never before experienced such a
castigation as was administered to her by the tamarack
pole in the hands of the obedient Takum. Although
the distance was not more than half a mile, and Philetus
in wielding the pole spared neither the brute nor his own
muscle, it was thirty minutes before they reached the
tamaracks.

"Well," remarked Takum, wiping the sweat from his
brow, "we can't git no horse through them tamaracks."

"Let me show you how these trees grow," said Montcalm,
pulling one of them from the ground, in which a sharpened
point had been sticking.

"I swan!" ejaculated the wondering Philetus, "somebody
has cut them poles and stuck 'em back in again."

Madge T. was again tied, and the two men commenced
to pull the trees from a narrow space which had been
prepared for the speedy completion of a road. Many
fallen and nearly decayed tamaracks, which had been left
to give the way a natural appearance, were by Montcalm's
command lifted aside carefully, that they might again be
returned, unchanged, to their former position. It was
necessary to be near the trees which had been cut and
set in the ground to distinguished them from those which
were standing as they had grown. But a careful observer
would have noticed that the ground was disturbed, that
many of the trees were leaning, and that his feet often
stepped on the small stumps, which were imperfectly
hidden by ruffled moss. Montcalm depended for the
security of the stolen property on the loneliness of the
place more than on the measures he had taken to provide
for the closing of the road when his booty should have
passed through. Nor was this confidence ill-founded.
The huckleberries and tamaracks were so thick that in
many places it was impossible to see at a distance of more
than six feet. The mat of bushes, catching at clothes and
striking when they were bent back and released, were
certain to occupy a liberal share of the attention of
possible wanderer, if, as was quite unlikely, he might be
led at that season of the year, by business or curiosity,
to flounder through the mire and water which surrounded the
swamp.

As they proceeded into the interior of the thicket, the
trees were larger and farther apart, so that few of them had
to be removed. The road here became more winding,
not only because those who cleared it found it easier to
pass around than to chop down a large trunk, but because
this method offered less danger of detection. Presently
the way became straighter and the trees smaller and more
numerous, as at the edge of the tamaracks.

In a cleared spot of a few yards in area the plunderers
halted. Ample provision had been made for the
accommodation of the horses. By the border of the clearing
were a bag of oats, some bedding and a large bundle of hay
wound about with a rope. Had Philetus possessed the
spirit of romanticism, he would have reveled in the scene
before him. But unappreciated, even unnoticed, was that
combination of picturesqueness formed by the rising moon,
the spoils of the foray, the steed which had been ridden
in the expedition, the dark, resolute face of the leader and
the wall of marshy forest which screened him in his
retreat.

The ground, which in most swamps is highest at the
center, was here quite dry. It was covered by moss, on
which was spread a finer carpeting -- the leaves which had
dropped the preceding fall; and over it arched the
tamaracks, which had put forth their peculiar pointed
foliage before the phlegmatic oaks of the upland had
covered their naked branches after the lethargy of winter.

The second horse was more difficult to lead than the
first. He pulled back on his halter and when urged by
the blows with which Takum belabored him, plunged
ahead with such vehemence that Montcalm was scarcely
able to hold him. It was a relief to Philetus when both
horses were eating together in the opening. The work of
replacing the sharpened stakes occupied some minutes.
Montcalm insisted that the old brush and fallen poles
should be dragged back to their places and arranged with
care.

More disagreeable than the task which they had completed
was that of wading through the water which skirted
the marsh. The rubber boots, high as they were, sank
beneath the surface, and the clothing of the lower limbs
was saturated with muddy water. In the border of the
woods the men changed their rubber for leather boots,
and Montcalm substituted for his drenched trousers a pair
which he found in a clump of bushes, and which had been
left evidently with a view to meeting that exigency.

"Ain't it about time we was makin' towards home, Mr.
Montcalm?" asked Philetus.

"Why, are you sick of foraging?" inquired Montcalm.

"No, I ain't sick of it, as you might say," answered
Takum, "but I've got enough of it for just now, you know.
My legs is about petered."

"I think you and I can do a very good business," said
Montcalm.

"That's about what I think," returned Takum. "Me
an' you is hustlers, an' they hadn't nobody better interfere
with us neither."

As Takum finished this speech, his foot caught in a
brush, and he was thrown against a tree with such force
that his jacket was unbuttoned and the dead hen tumbled
against a log with a thud.

"How did you come by that?" demanded Montcalm.

"Well, you see," answered the terrified Philetus, "I
was right there, you know, by the hen-house, you know,
an' I thought it wouldn't do any hurt, seein' I'knew the
way in, to git this chicken."

"Was that when the dog barked?" asked Montcalm.

"No, just afore," acknowledged Takum. "You ain't
mad, be you, Mr. Montcalm?"

"I would not try any such thing again," said Montcalm.
"You must attend to business and let hens, ducks and
geese alone. You are green at the work, but by training
you will make a good hand."

"You bet your sweet neck," replied Philetus. "I ain't
no two-spot. Say, don't you think me an' you could git
them horses without accountin' to nobody for 'em?"

"No, it would not be best," said Montcalm. "We
could not sell them without getting caught. Besides, there
is a great risk in taking them. I never work in a
neighborhood long after I start a gang. You and I have too
long heads to wallow through swamps and risk our necks
around other men's bams at night. We will do the
planning, and let some one else do the work."

"Say, but there is somethin' in that," acquiesced
Philetus. "Me an' you can do the plannin'. I was to git
ten dollars for what I done, an' I've been scart more'n
ten dollars' worth, take it all around. Don't none o' the
men you have to work for you ever tell?"

"Oh, yes!" answered Montcalm, "they sometimes do."

"An' do you ever hurt 'em?" queried Takum.

"No," replied Montcalm.

"So you never do nothin' to 'em?" said Takum.

"Oh, yes!" said Montcalm, "we do something to them."

"An' what do you do?" asked Philetus.

"Shoot them," answered Montcalm.

"I thought you said you never hurt 'em," said Takum
in a disappointed tone.

"Neither do we. We kill them so quick it does not
hurt them," gently replied Montcalm,

"Oh, I wouldn't tell nobody," said Takum earnestly.
"I've hooked more chickens'n anybody in this hull
country, an' I never told anybody but you.

At Takum's house Montcalm struck across the fields
and was soon by Ratke's barns. In the shadow of the
largest he paused and deliberated whether it were not
better to leave the neighborhood. He knew that pursuit
must have been organized for his capture. It was also
possible that he had been recognized by Wingscheut,
Sparks or the mysterious stranger whom he had rescued.
Moreover, he had reason to fear the instability of
Philetus. But Philetus might prove a better confidant than
helper, especially after being impressed with the certainty
of punishment for the first breach of confidence.

Montcalm decided to remain. He hesitated to leave
her for whose approval, though it could not be gained, no
sacrifice would have been too great. He told himself
that, had she given him the least encouragement, he would
have averted the misfortunes which were gathering about
her and her relatives. He was tired of the life he was
leading, with its trickery and deceit, its wronging of honest
men. He would lay his plans, and at a few successful
moves gather in the money which would enable him to
live at peace with all mankind.

Strangely he felt the force of those words which that
Sabbath night Manie had spoken to him concerning
Ahab and the Syrian. He had made the covenant with
Ben-hadad, but his Ramoth Gilead had not yet come.
And would it come? With that apprehension by which
the guilty spirit alone is haunted, he looked about him.
In the peaceful air, undisturbed by a sound harsher than
the note of the whip-poor-will, was no warning. The only
foreign element in the quiet which reigned about the
place was the turbulence which agitated the mind of one
man.

The night was now well advanced. Some stars which
had by the marauders been used as landmarks or timepieces,
had changed their places or disappeared. The Pleiades
had descended to the westward. The great dipper had
lowered its handle until it appeared to be a receptacle
toward which were falling myriads of glittering drops.
Taking his way through the spruce, Montcalm raised his
window and clambered in.



CHAPTER VIII.

PURSUING THE DEPREDATORS.

Toward morning the major was awakened by loud and
repealed shouting. As passers-by had sometimes amused
themselves by calling him up and cracking jokes at his
expense, he did not at first respond to the summons. But
the continuance of the shouting argued the occurrence of
something unusual, and, hastily dressing, he went to the
dining-room window.

In the road was a band of mounted men, the advance
of which only could be seen by Ratke, while the main
portion of the body was obscured by the evergreens.
Some of the troop carried guns, several bore pitchforks,
not more than one or two appeared unarmed, and these
probably had revolvers.

"What is the matter?" inquired the major.

"Matter enough!" returned a voice. "Two horses was
stole last night, and we're after the thieves."

"We've got some inquiries to make here," said Green,
riding through the large gate and within a short distance
of the house, where he was followed by the band. "You
have men from every part of the country, and nobody
knows whether they are honest or not. What we want to
know is, where are they?"

"You may search the premises if you like," said Ratke.
"All of my men are in the club-house. All but one," he
added, "and he is above suspicion. I will call him."

"Trace, Trace," called the major, going to the door of
Montcalm's room with a lamp.

"Come in," said Montcalm, "I thought I heard some
one calling."

As soon as Ratke had left him, Montcalm sprang up,
scaped together some patches of swamp muck which
bad not been noticed by his unobservant employer, and,
wrapping them in a paper, threw them hastily into one of
his trunks.

Stepping out of doors, be saw the thief-hunters, who
were returning from the club-house.

"Hurrah, boys!" called a young fellow in a white hat;
"everybody get on a horse."

"What is the use of making such a racket?" asked
Green. "You let the thieves know you are coming long
before we get to them."

"I am my own boss," answered the fellow in the white
hat.

Montcalm ran to the horse-barn, unlocked it with the
key which he had obtained from Ratke, bridled the steeds
and led them out before he was rejoined by his employer.
After assisting the major to get on the back of Bill, he
too mounted, and they at once sped eastward toward the
party, which they presently overtook.

The band halted in front of Takum's.

"We want to see where Phleet is," said Green.

Shout after shout was given, but Philetus did not respond.

"There is no use in disturbing him," said the major.
"He has not enterprise enough for a horse-thief."

"Don't be too sure," said Green, proceeding to the front
door and administering several loud taps.

"Who's there?" asked a female voice after the lapse
of a few seconds.

"Where is Phleet?" inquired Green, ignoring her
question.

"He ain't to home," replied Mrs. Takum. "He's
gone to his uncle's."

"There, Ratke," exclaimed Green triumphantly as he
neared the road." He's gone, and right in the middle of
the night. We'll take a look after him."

"It is probable that he is where he hadn't ought to be,"
said a red-whiskered man whose name was Holmes. "I
shouldn't wonder at all if he's with the horses now."

Montcalm, realizing that it would be dangerous to allow
suspicion to fall upon his subordinate, jumped to the
ground and inquired, "What is his name?"

"Phleet," answered Sparks,

Rushing to the door of the house and giving it some
kicks which threatened to tear it from its hinges,
Montcalm shouted,

"Phleet, Phleet, if you don't come, we will kick down
your door and drag you out of bed."

"Yes, I'm a-coming' answered the trembling Philetus.
"Don't be a-gittin' mad now."

"There," said the major, triumphing in his turn, "he
was afraid to answer. He thought you were about to do
him violence."

The band, unanimously agreeing not to disturb Takum
further, continued their course, which they decided to
direct through the swamp, instead of along the road which
branched southward.

"Where have you been hunting?" asked Ratke.

"We've been all along the road by Lyme's," answered
Holmes." We turned the corner east of his house and
went up by Rob Eliot's, and so around to Oakville and
your house. But we have found no trace of the thieves."

"The funniest thing of the whole bisness is that they
didn't leave no tracks," remarked Sparks." There was
a ways that the ground was all scraped up, places two or
three feet across. But it didn't go far, an' then we couldn't
find hide nor hair."

"In my opinion," said Holmes, "we had better stop at
the house of every suspicious character. If we find them
at home, very good. If not, we will suspect them. I
think the men that took those horses are with them now.
When I was a boy I had some traps stolen. There was
a very light snow, and I started to follow the tracks of the
thieves. I happened to meet an old trapper, and he said,
'I'll go with you, but we won't follow these tracks.
There's no telling where they go to. We'll take the back
track.' So we followed the tracks back. They led to a
house not more than half a mile from the trapping ground.
They were two surprised boys, when I caught them walking
into the house with my traps."

"Had we not better divide our party?" asked Ratke.
"Concentration of power is necessary when we wish to
apply a prodigious force at a particular point. But in this
case, where the resistance is apt to be small, we had better
get at the short end of the lever, thus providing for much
agility and extension of movement."

"I can't make out how we can get around any livelier
by dividin' up," said Sparks. "I can move just as fast
when I'm with somebody as when I'm alone."

"I am not to blame," returned Ratke, "because you
cannot see why we can look over more ground by dividing
our force, why we can stand a better chance to catch
the thieves by watching a mile than a rod of territory. I
suppose that they would not dare make any resistance if
we found them."

"There's just where you're mistaken," replied Sparks.
"They come a-chargin' up my lane to beat all, an' they drove
me an' my boy to the house, in spite o' all we could do."

"Yes," said Wingscheut, "tey come a-charchin' up.
Put, provitin' I hat hat a coot man vith me, I coot a kilt
efery tam horse-tief."

"How many of them were there?" inquired Ratke.

"Veil," answered Wingscheut," tere vass two in te first
place. Unt von of 'em he run. Unt, provitin' my short
lec vass crowet out long like it vass started to crow, I coot
a caught 'im. Put I catched te otter von hiplock, Unt I
trowet 'im. Unt, provitin' you ton't pelieve it, you can
ask Sparks. Ten tere vass four more, tey come a-ritin'
up. Unt von of 'em he was a pic feller. He vass proat
unt he vass long, Unt he vass pic all ofer. Unt he hat
plack viskers Come vay town here," said the German,
drawing his hand across his waist. "Vell, ten I let te
feller co vat I hat, Unt I hit te feller vat hat te viskers.
Unt tey run teir horses pack, vippin' 'em like tey vass no
man vant to pe pehint. Provitin' I hat a hat somepoty
vat coot a het 'em off, tey vass cone up horse-tiefs. Unt,
if you vant to know who te feller vass tat I trowet, I can
tell you tat."

"Who was he, Wingscheut?" asked the fellow in the
white hat.

"Vell," answered Wingscheut, "maype you ton't pelief
it, put he vass Panicky,"

The German's statement was greeted with a laugh of
derision which silenced him for some minutes.

"That was a fine animal you lost, Sparks," remarked
Ratke.

"Yes," said Sparks, "she was the best blooded animal
in the county."

"You are mistaken," replied the major. "My Taylor
has better blood than Madge T."

"They don't nobody else think so," returned Sparks.
"Madge T. is by Wellington, an' Wellington is by
Cyclone, an' Cyclone is by Mohammed, an' Mohammed
is by the Duke of Argyle, and he was good for 2:26.
Madge's mother was from Petoskey Chief, an' she could
go in three minutes."

"Taylor has no blood as slow as three minutes," replied
the major. "Taylor's sire was Aleck, he by King Henry,
he by Maurice A., he by the Duke of Argyle. Taylor's
dam was Matilda, sired by Cal, he by MarshalNey, he by
Royal John. Matilda went in 2:28 on Long Island, and
every horseman knows that Aleck could distance Wellington"

"The proof of the puddin' is in the eatin'," said
Sparks. "Madge T. could always go by Taylor."

"Always?" said Ratke. "Sparks, did I not go by you
coming from the donation at Osborne's?"

"Yes," admitted Sparks, "an' didn't you run your
horses, too?"

"Taylor did break up," returned Ralke. "But when
you regain possession of Madge T., bring her over and I
will try conclusions with you."

"I'm afraid we won't race very quick," sorrowfully
observed Sparks.

They had now passed through the swamp and were
approaching a dilapidated barn, beyond which was an
unpainted frame-house.

"Had we better stop here?" inquired one.

"Yes," was the answer. "They're hard customers.
We better rout 'em up."

The crowd, stopping their horses by the front gate,
called the name of Wallace and uttered with it many an
unnecessary and insinuating remark. At last a window
was raised, a head thrust out and Wallace inquired,

What do you want?"

In spite of their want of respect for the place and its
occupants, the party hesitated to answer the gruff
interrgation. But Green, who was unscrupulous in wounding
the feelings of others, boldly replied,

"We wanted to know if you was at home."

"I'm much obliged to you," said Wallace. "I like to
be waked up out of a snooze to hear some half-baked
nuisance ask if I'm to home. I s'pose you want to know
next if the folks is all well."

So saying, he shut down the window, and it was only
after some severe threats that the band succeeded in
bringing him back for a second interview.

"There were some horses stole to-night," said Green,
"and we thought that we would satisfy ourselves that you
was at home."

"You see I am," replied Wallace. "Now I wish you'd
go off and mind your business."

"Where is Ab?" inquired Green.

"Abed, where all honest men ought to be," returned
Wallace. "Got any more questions to ask?"

"We don't know whether he's there or not," said Green.
"Call him up."

"Ab, Ab," cried Wallace, "show these fools you're to
home."

A cord bedstead gave forth a dolorous groaning, and
directly after the face of Ab appeared at a chamber
window,

"Now," said Wallace, "get out of here, or I'll let 
daylight through some of you,"

This injudicious threat brought a shower of stones,
which several substantial citizens, including Ratke and
Holmes, in vain strove to prevent. Two windows were
broken, a piece of one clapboard was split off and knocked
down, and the house received other marks from the rocky
bombardment. It was fortunate for Wallace, that some
of the younger and more hot-headed of the party were at
the barn looking at his horses. They drew out an old
buggy and rummaged through the empty bay and stable.
They even led out the horses to see if one of them
were not Madge T. or Green's Billy in disguise. But the
protruding ribs and low hanging heads were convincing
proofs of the no non-identities of the steeds.

The morning was near at hand, and, tired and discouraged,
the men retraced their steps across the swamp.
"If we could only get our hands on 'em," said a man
from Oakville who had lost a valuable Percheron in the
winter. "I'd like to see 'em hanging to an oak limb."

"The proper way to punish misdemeanor," replied the
major, "is to execute sentence proceeding from a legally
organized tribunal. The decisions of men unaccustomed
to jurisprudence and unrestrained by the statutes are apt
to be hasty. Your conduct toward Wallace illustrates my
statement. You had not the slightest evidence against
him, but you waked him up in the middle of the night,
insulted him, and when he replied to your insults, stoned
his house and threatened to do him bodily injury."

"There didn't any of it come amiss," was the response.
"If he didn't deserve it one time, he did another."

"The greatest and most widespread danger to society,"
said the major, "is lawlessness. It is in the rural
districts, in high places, among the legislators themselves.
Citizens whose general morals are irreproachable, who
read the Bible and strive to abide by its teachings, forget
that they should remain subject to the powers that be.
It matters not whether the act of disobedience be the
spearing of a fish in May, the shooting of a quail out of
season, or the illegal hanging of a horse-thief; the effect
is the same, for it brings contempt of the law. The
insubordination thus fostered, building upon precedents
unintended as such by their authors, walks with mobs in
cities, overthrows the virtue and very existence of states,
and spreads panic and instability among the nations.
We must not be rash in following our projects of vengeance."

"Rash, or no rash," said the Oakville man, "I'd help
put 'em where they wouldn't do any more mischief."

"If am along when they are captured," returned Ratke,
"and any injury is attempted, I will defend them
to the best of my ability."

"That's the talk," exclaimed the fellow in the white hat
who was an admirer of Ratke's courage. "And I'm with
you every time, Major. We'll turn 'em over to the law,
and we won't give 'em anything more than a good sound
drubbing."

"You'll see," replied the obstinate Oakville man. "If
we can't hang 'em, I'll put some cold lead into 'em."

"Afore you hang 'em or shoot 'em," said Jake Sheppard,
"hadn't you better catch 'em?"

At the western extremity of the swamp they stopped.

"Gentlemen," began the major, "we have made as
thorough a search as we could under the circumstances.
But we can do no more without organization. Random
efforts will avail us nothing. In order to recover the stolen
property we must plan, and plans are quite certain of
failure when they are known to a strong and vigilant
enemy. If the measures we adopt are understood throughout
the country, they will be revealed to the thieves. I
think we ought to choose a committee of five to direct our .
movements. This committee should have the power of
making its deliberations secret or public, as it may deem
proper."

"The major is right," said Holmes. "It won't do to
let everybody know just what we are going to do. I move
that we have an executive committee of five."

The motion was passed, and the party chose, as members
of the committee. Holmes, Ratke, Sparks, Green and
Montcalm, of whom the latter was nominated by the
major. Ratke's house was selected as the location for a
temporary committee room, and two o'clock that afternoon
named as the hour of meeting.

The business concluded, the band dispersed. The
major's farm hands, with the exception of Archer, who had
been too sleepy to join the hunt, commenced to do the
chores.

"Now, Trace," said the major after breakfast, "I am
going to take a nap. You were disturbed of your rest.
Come in the house and lie down."

"Thank you," replied Montcalm. "I slept well the
forepart of the night, and I am not very tired."

"I know what is the trouble with you," said Ratke.
"You do not want the gentler sex to suspect that you are
so weak as to feel fatigue. I do not blame you. Go and
lie down in the club-house."



CHAPTER IX.

HOW THE AFFAIR ENDED.

The deliberations of the committee lasted several
hours. Ratke convinced his associates that the horses
were hidden in the swamp, and that, consequently, the roads
surrounding that portion near which the animals disappeared
should be watched. The supervision of these
roads, which had an extent of eight miles, was divided
between the five members of the committee. Each member
was to find enough men systematically to guard the
part apportioned him.

Montcalm cleverly secured the division extending
eastward from Takum's. He also obtained permission of
the major to engage his hands. Avoiding Sheppard and
Wrengell, he secured the services of Daggett, Brown,
Thompson, and that still more valuable acquisition, Archer,
whom he promised some blankets and cigars and instructed
to pass the night as comfortably as possible.

In some bushes near the road Montcalm left the
blankets which he had promised Archer. At Break o'Day
he hired two topers whom he found in Dr. Rorus' drugstore.

Jimmy Martin and old John Davis, the men whom he
engaged, were chronic inebriates. They were harmless
as doves, but not wise as serpents. They worked much
of the time by the day, and money they valued solely as a
means by which liquor was obtained. They accepted the
offer of the committee-man, because it necessitated no
hard work and because it promised better remuneration
than common labor.

Montcalm knew that criticism would be made on his
action in engaging such inefficient sentinels, but he was
in a desperate strait which required the use of desperate
expedients. It was possible for him in a measure to avert
suspicion. In the presence of three listeners he refused
their request to be supplied with whisky, saying that they
must remain sober during the night. Moreover, he told
them that, if they took a drop of the beverage with them,
he should secure other help.

At dusk he posted his guards. Commencing at the
point where his division joined that of Ratke, he placed
his men in the order named: Martin, Davis, Archer,
Takum, Thompson, Brown, Daggett.

These were, as he afterward claimed, all the sentinels
whom he could procure, Archer's position was near a
creek, the laggard waters of which were moving toward
the first of a chain of lakes connected with the Huron
River, Near him and leading toward the highway was an
old road which had been used in the transportation of poles
from the interior of the swamp.

"Here," said Montcalm, drawing the blankets from
some alder bushes where they were concealed, "you
will have a comfortable time."

"I hope so," said Archer. "Planting corn is hard work
when you drive it."

"If you hear any disturbance," ordered Montcalm, "you
call me. You need not stay on your feet continually.
Once an hour, or once every two hours, you can go to the
bridge and back. But do not let any one know that you
are favoring your legs in the least."

"No, I won't," assured Archer. "Folks don't seem to
realize that a laboring man gets tired. You spoke something
about some cigars, Mr. Montcalm,"

"So I did," said Montcalm, handing him a half-dozen
of the desired gifts, which had a superior flavor to which
Archer was unaccustomed. "I must go and look to
Takum. Do you think he will do his duty?"

"Well, I don't know," replied Archer. "The trouble
with Phleet Takum is, he's lazy. He'll never set the
North River afire."

"How are you feeling?" asked Montcalm, as he joined
Takum.

"Not very bumkum," answered the subordinate. "I
was nigh scart to death las' night, I thought they was
a-comin' right into the house an' goin' to drag me out.
They'd hang a feller sure if they got their claws on him."

"You are right," said Montcalm. "But they will not
get their claws on us."

"How be we goin' to help ourselves?" queried Takum.
"They'll hunt the swamp to-morrer, and they'll have
them horses as sure as preachin'."

"We will look to that," said Montcalm,

"I know what we can do," said Philetus. "You an'
me can take 'em out up toward Will Archer. He'll be to
sleep in an hour, an' thunder an' lightin' won't wake him.
He's too lazy to stand for a sign-post."

"We will let them stay for the present," replied Montcalm.
"I want you to do an errand for me."

"'Tain't far to go, is it ?" asked Philetus. "Ever
since las' night I've been afraid o' my shadder."

"Up past Wallace's," said Montcalm, taking two quart
bottles from his pocket. "Carry these bottles under your
jacket, just as you did the chicken. Give one of them to
Davis and one to Martin. But do not say that I sent them.
Make them believe that you came without my knowledge,
and that I would not like it if I knew it. Be particular
about this."

"Yes," assented Philetus. "But what are you goin' to
do with the horses? They'll find them to-morrer as sure as
preachin'."

"The first thing to be done," said Montcalm, "is to go
with the whisky bottles. You must do exactly as I tell
you now. I was patient with you last night, but I will
stand no more such work. I want you to go there and
get back as soon as you can. Remember, this is no time
to steal chickens."

"I ain't had no hankerin' to since las' night," responded
I Takum gloomily. "Gosh all Friday! I wish I was out o'
this. It seems to me I'd git them horses away."

"You recollect that I often had to warn you about talking
too much," said Montcalm. "Do what I tell you and
no more. Go with the bottles, come back and stay here."

"Yes," answered Philetus, "they won't nobody hear a
yip out o' me, only Jimmy an' ole John an' you."

After satisfying himself that his threats and the fear of
popular vengeance had impressed Takum with the
necessity of caution, Montcalm went to his post, which
was east of the swamp.  He held a short conversation with
each of several neighbors who passed him. Leaning over
the broken-down gate in front of the unattractive house,
he talked a few minutes with Wallace, who complained of
the rough treatment which he had received from the band
in pursuit of the horse-thieves. The hour of eleven was
approaching when he proceeded toward the sentinels
whom he had placed at the extremity of his division.
Old John was standing in an attitude of meditation by the
fence, with his hands grasping the top rail and his body
unsteadily waving about. Unconscious that he was
watched, he staggered to a jug and emptied a quart of
liquid, a part into his throat, a greater portion down his
shirt collar. With more volume than melody floated a
song from Jimmy Martin, which showed that Philetus had
faithfully performed his errand. Montcalm on his return
stopped at Wallace's house and knocked. There was no
light inside, but the door shortly opened and he was
admitted.

"I was tired and I went to bed," said Wallace. "I'll
light the lamp. Ab, get up."

The cord bedstead in the chamber groaned, and in a
few minutes Ab appeared.

"We'll take a turn at seven up," said Wallace. "Draw
up your chair, Montcalm."

"Count me in, too. Pa," said a large, rawboned, masculine
looking girl, whose freckled face pushed through the
opening door of an adjoining bedroom.

"Jule," exclaimed Wallace, "who told you to get up? "

"I told myself," replied Julia. "If there's any fun, I'll
have my share, and don't you forget it."

"Those windows ought to be darkened," remarked
Montcalm. "If I should be seen here, I might be
accused of neglecting my duty."

"Here, you, Ab," exclaimed Julia, grabbing her brother
by the shoulders and jerking him backward from his chair,
"run upstairs and get a quilt."

"Don't be too smart, Jule," warned Wallace. "You
may get set back a peg. That girl's a trump," he said to
Montcalm, as Julia disappeared in another room. "I
wish Ab was like her. If she was a boy, they'd have to
stand 'round for her. She and Ab don't always agree.
They fight like cats and dogs, and Jule is about enough
for him."

"Now, Ab," whispered Julia, meeting that individual in
his descent from the stairs, "don't you take that old quilt
in there for Mr. Montcalm to see. It ain't fit. You get
the cat's-paw."

"I don't know nothin' about any cat's-paw," said Ab,
aloud. "You can't make any cat's-paw of me."

"Hatefulness," replied Julia, giving him a push and
running up the stairs.

Julia brought down the cat's-paw and lugged out the
best quilt from the spare bedroom. These she put over
the windows, and at Montcalm's suggestion looked about
for something to fill the keyhole of the back-door. Passing
by carpet rags and old clothing, she went to her box
of choicest finery, and from it selected a red ribbon which
she stuffed into the keyhole, taking pains to leave an end
of it hanging down for her visitor's inspection.

"You and me can beat pa and Ab at seven-up. Can't
we, Mr. Montcalm?" she said, smoothing the pendent
strip of silk.

"They was rough on us last night," said Wallace, shuffling
the cards with dexterity." It beat all how they tore
around. They marked the house all up with rocks, and
turned the horses loose, and run the buggy out. They
hit one of the wheels against something and cracked two


