stretched. It could never again be used, for though it
would once more be clear, the sickening thought of the
tragedy which had given it that crimson tinge would
appall him who should presume to drink from it. William
Henry Harrison was obliged to carry the family supply of
water from the barn until another well could be dug.

"Trace," observed the major, after they had passed the
church on their return to the farm, "you remind me more
and more of your father. When there was a general
struggle to obtain a petty object, he never joined the
rabble. He was willing that others should go before him.
At Green's you sacrificed your curiosity to the curiosity of
others. You might have crowded up and viewed the body,
but you did not. I do not believe you went into the
cellar to-day."


CHAPTER XIV.

MONTCALM FINDS DANTE INACCURATE.

On the second night after the inquest Montcalm fell
into his first slumber since the nocturnal expedition which
had robbed him of Nature's restorative and had deprived
Green of mortal existence. In that state in which the
reasoning faculties are yielding to the need of rest, the
gradual transition from balanced consciousness to uncertain
fancy, he thought he saw a broad, smoothly flowing
river. The green meadow beside it, the adjacent woods,
where huge trees seemed ineffectually striving to form
bridges, were familiar to him. The house in which he was
born he saw for an instant before its place was occupied
by other objects. A cool breeze came from the water,
bringing to him vigor and placidity. He had a
strange sensation, yet it was one of peace. He was that
river. In his way were no greater trials than the fallen
trees which he swept around without inconvenience from
their presence or animosity for their interference.

His being was now divided, but the division was unequal.
A certain amount of perception alone, stripped
of the power of action, separated from the river. Through
this perception the dreamer continued his fancies. He
could no longer see the river, which retained his capacity
for good or evil, his moral responsibility. Gradually the
stream narrowed and became more turbulent. This was
indicated by the roar of its waters, which, continually
rising in pitch, betokened the decline of power and the
increase of violence. The cataract, for such it had grown
to be, was now as small as that which falls over a
schoolboy's dam. Still it decreased in size until it was no
larger than an ordinary hand, and soon its water could
have been drained as fast as it fell by a thirsty man.
Montcalm started as the stream underwent its last
diminution. Once before he had heard that measured
trickling. Some time elapsed ere he could turn his head
and view the remains of that river, which had parted with
strength, beauty and serenity. At last he saw the dropping
liquid, but it was not water. It was falling from the
end of a plank into a well with a barrel curb. On the
plank was the source of the stream, the form of a man
with skull cloven and with brain exposed. The frightful
wound, which was presented toward Montcalm, showed
him that the victim was still cognizant of current events,
for shadows of thought were passing along the convolutions
of the cerebrum. The shadows, or waves, had no
regularity of form or of appearance. At times they moved
slowly, at others they passed with great rapidity, like the
spokes of a swiftly revolving wheel. The eyes were fixed
and lurid, but they were frequently darkened by clouds of
meaning, the shades which were sweeping along the brain.
The face, undergoing the not unusual exaggeration of
dreams, alternately lengthened and broadened, one dimension
reaching its maximum development as the other
attained its minimum. The sleeper believed its hue was
ghastlier than that of death. He reached the climax of
his fright when the dead man, by a convulsive effort,
changed his features to the aspect of life and fastened on
him a look such as he might have given a poor neighbor
on whose meager possessions he had a mortgage which
he meant relentlessly to foreclose. He knew that Green
never gave that wink and leer except when some cherished
project of vengeance or finance was materializing to
a certainty.

The repulsive object on the plank was once more
hideously distorted. As the chin dropped in an abnormal
distension, the mouth opened and seemed about to close
on Montcalm, who inert and helpless, dreaded the first
touch of the jagged lips. From the cavernous throat deformed
beings beckoned to him to join them. What heightened 
his fear was a mad impulse to precipitate himself
into the yawning chasm, an act which he knew would
be followed by the most appalling consequences. Strenuously
he tried to escape. Not a muscle would contract
to help him in his emergency. Finally his will-power
prevailed and he was able to flee. Leaving the cellar, he
entered the apartment on the ground floor. Instantly
from the vicinity of the well came the clamor of pursuit,
and after him sprang a dozen men. He was in a very
large house which he was determined to quit, but every
door which he opened disclosed to him a division of the
infinitely vast building. He raced from room to room,
from each of which, sustaining a sharp conflict, he emerged,
invariably frightened and invariably unhurt. His desperate
defense was not prompted by courage, for he had but one desire,
that of finding safety at whatever cost.
His adversaries, on the contrary, though often driven back
had stricken down, returned each time to the attack, not in
the least dismayed by the blows which they had received.
Presently they forced him to a corner from which he
could not retreat. His guard was beaten down, and he
was at the mercy of his pitiless enemies. They surrounded him,
raising high their bludgeons, which poised
an instant before descending.

With a gigantic leap he crashed through the wall and trod
the solid earth. Given on this footing an unnatural speed,
he swept over fields, fences and woods, barely treading
the ground and propelling himself far at every light touch
of his foot. No longer were his pursuers in sight or hearing,
but fearful of the approach, he would not abate his
exertions.

Before him was the great swamp, and his route was the
causeway east of Ratke's. He was almost flying along the
road, by the side of which the tamaracks grew large and
tall, when to his inexpressible horror Archer arose from
the bushes, pointed a revolver at him and fired. The
shot at once robbed him of his great speed, and in his
face blew a strong wind against which he could make
little headway. His pursuers again drew new. With
savage gesticulations and yells of triumph the pressed
about him. In the intensity of despair he felt that he
could neither flee nor fight. Helplessly he looked aloft
and prayed for relief. As with limbs paralyzed, but with
senses painfully acute, he lay momentarily expecting
destruction, an angelic form flitted to his rescue, and
interposing its bright wings, parried the threatening clubs.

The mien of the angel was benign and serene. Merciful
in his strength, he did not injure those who were endeavoring
to kill the wretch who had secured his intervention.
Montcalm, confident in the will and ability of this being
to protect him, imploringly clutched the hem of his garment.
The angel stooped and lifted him; and together,
propelled by those bright wings, hand in hand, they sped
away at a rate which defied pursuit. Their course was
midway between the horizontal and the vertical. Terrestrial
objects, trees, rivers, hills and plains, blended
indistinguishably together on the surface of the
disappearing planet, which, a non-luminous ball, was
drawing its dusky outlines into smaller compass.

Measureless was the space through which they flew.
Montcalm became aware that his feet now and then met a
substance which, though not solid, was more tangible than
air. His footing grew firmer. He was entering a land
where the common objects of inhabited earth were wanting,
where irregularly formed bodies cast shadows along
the uneven surface. A dull red glare, hovering over a
strip of the horizon, gave a quantity of light insufficient
to make vision plain. He drew closer to his protector,
for he was intimidated by the unfamiliar sight. Journeying
on, they came to a locality which was entirely occupied
by somber rocks piled in mountain-like masses by
convulsions of the sub-strata. In the distance a lurid
flame shot up high in the heavens, as if the forces which
had wrought that devastation, instead of dying out, had
shifted in position and increased in intensity.
Awe-stricken, Montcalm paused. Gladly would he have
returned to the world from which he had fled; but, as he
attempted to escape from his companion, his hand was
tightly held, and he was unable to withdraw it. At the
same moment the strange being underwent a transformation.
His golden wings lost their brilliancy, from the
top of his head sprang great horns, his face changed from
benignity to diabolical ugliness and was dark and stern
as the fire-blackened rocks around him. Agonized beyond
measure, Montcalm gazed on him who destroys men's
souls, and he remembered that he had voluntarily placed
himself in his power. While he was shrinking from his
repulsive master and fearfully awaiting the awful flame
which had now neared him, he heard, repeated, a long
shrill blast, the annunciation that "there should be time
no longer."

He opened his eyes as the notes of one of the major's
chanticleers was dying away. It was some minutes before
he comprehended the unreality of his dream, and even
after it was apparent to him, he frequently wondered if it
were really a delusion. Day had not yet arrived. The
light which came through the evergreens in front of his
window was furnished chiefly by the moon, which had
more than an hour ere its supersedure by the sun.

The plaster on the walls had cracked, leaving many
seams which an unemployed imagination might construe
to represent definite shapes. Montcalm's gaze followed
one of these lines as, making a number of curves, it formed
a grotesque resemblance to a man's head. Uneasily he
turned toward the opposite wall, fancying that the picture
was shaped like the exaggerated countenance of Green as
it had appeared in his dream.

No sooner had he sought relief by changing his posture
than his eyes fell on another set of seams which united in
the shape of a broad-ax. He sprang from bed resolved
that he would not longer stay where the most commonplace
things united to make his sojourn hideous.

Weakened by the horrors of the night, he walked slowly
from the house. The cattle were lying down in the
barnyard. With the exception of himself and Mrs. Grippin's
ducks neither animals nor men were astir about the place.
Wearily he opened a barn door and climbing a stationary
ladder, flung himself on the haymow. Sleep was for him
impossible, but he might be able to rest. He did, indeed,
find a partial refuge from his harrowing thoughts. But,
as the day dawned, he was beset by a swarm of flies,
which would give him no peace. When he had covered
his face with his hat, they lighted on his hands, and when
he had plunged his bands into the hay, they crowded under
the hat and still tormented him. He believed that
henceforth for him there was no quiet; that all nature had
conspired to make him miserable.
He heard the me  chatting in the stable and about the
barnyard. Not wishing to be discovered in the loft, he
climbed down and was passing out, when he met Archer,
whose inexpressive face reminded him of the shot which
had stopped his flight in the swamp.

Breakfast was to him a severe trial. By dint of great
exertion he managed to invent a few gay remarks and to
deliver them in a sprightly manner; but the effort was so
severe that it could not be prolonged, and he relapsed
again into silence.

It was a fine Sabbath morning, and after his few chores
were done, he sauntered back of the house, where he was
joined by Ratke.

"The murder, has drawn my attention from my own
affairs," said the major. "I am again finanfcially
embarrassed. Did I tell you about it, Trace ?"

"No, you did not," answered Montcalm.

"I do not want to profane the Sabbath, but this is not
a business matter," said Ratke, feeling in spite of his
explanation that he was doing what he pretended to avoid,
"that is, it is not a transaction in business to-day.
Durgenson has written me that he must have $4,000 the 23d
of this month. I have nothing for him unless I sell the
Barton hundred and sixty. What would you do?"

"Do not pay him one cent," replied Montcalm, with an
energy which he had not exhibited for days. "He wants
to get your entire property. Let him have this farm, but
keep---

"What!" exclaimed the major, "let the place go without
an attempt to save it ? Do you know how I have become
attached to my home? To save it, I will sacrifice,
if need be, all my possessions."

"That is what you will do," rejoined Montcalm, "and
it will avail you nothing. If you do not pay your
indebtedness on the day it is due, the farm belongs to
Durgenson. Pay all you owe him, if you pay anything. He
does not want it paid. He is longing to get every dollar
you have. He would be disappointed to hear that you
were prepared to discharge the debt. The shark in whose
clutches you have fallen will show you no mercy until the
shark of the sea returns a man unharmed to the deck of
the vessel from which he has fallen."

"You have a new opinion of Durgenson," said the
major. "You were the first one to advise me to take the
step which I did."

"God forgive me, I did!" exclaimed Montcalm bitterly.
"But all is not ruined now. You have a hundred and
sixty acres of good land. That will keep you well, and
you need not do a stroke of work. Suppose you let that
go and are penniless, what will you do? You ought not
to be obliged to labor at your age. I would keep it by
all means."

Montcalm purposely strolled near a group of the hired
men, and Ratke, unable to impart confidences, returned to
the house. Had the gloomy young man been questioned
by one who had authority to demand an answer, he could
not have explained why he went down the road toward
the church and plunged into the wood at the left.

It was with dread that he approached the pond. Its
edge had retreated farther from its usual border than it
was on the night when he had last visited it. Some turtles
which were on a log fell with splashes into the water.
A snake swam a rod or two from shore and dived for
safety. Montcalm's hair arose as he saw a leech on the
muddy bottom worming its way to shore. Sick with aversion,
he turned away, believing that the pond and its
vicinity was fit only for the habitation of devils. He
put his hand inside the hollow tree and drew out the
articles which he had there hidden. They were as he had
left tliem, the plunder, the auger, the mask and the rough
clothes with their blood-stains. He was not actuated by
a love of his ill-acquired money, and he had little curiosity.
Indeed, he did not open the pocket-book, and he barely
glanced at the clothes.

Restoring to the tree what he had removed, he walked
toward the swamp. In the gradual descent he found a
spring, and stooping, he took a cool draught and from it
bathed his face and head. After being thus invigorated,
he resumed his walk in better spirits. From the side of
the declivity bubbled other springs, the water of which met
in a rivulet, which joined the creek in the tamaracks,

Montcalm sat down near a fallen tree-top which partly
obstructed the brook. The limbs reached nearly across
the channel; so that the water, sweeping by at one side,
made its escape through a narrow passage. The current
below was rapid. Above it moved slowly, halting at the
tree-top where a partial dam of leaves, sticks and scum
was collected. Long strings of green slime swayed to
and fro, attached to the bottom and the sides of the
channel. Whirled above by the eddies, small objects were
passed into a peaceful bay formed by the tree-top and
the bank or swept into the turbulent rapids beyond.
Montcalm became impressed with the idea that the placid
bay held safety and that in the rapid current beyond was
destruction. Every piece of bark which was brought by
the rivulet he watched to ascertain its fate. He was glad
when one reached the smooth haven, disappointed when
another swept around the obstruction and was hurried to
its doom. By degrees he came to regard each floating
substance as a representation of himself, his deeds, his
chance of preservation.

An ant crawled down an overhanging bush which almost
touched the surface of the brook. Ordinarily it
would have maintained its balance, but as it whirled to
ascend, struck by a puff of wind, it fell. Montcalm viewed
its struggles with interest, for it reminded him of the
manner in which he, tossed hither and thither, had been
borne down the stream of fatality. He reflected that he
could no more have resisted the temptations and
circumstances by which he was surrounded than the poor
insectcould rise above the whirlpools and fly to land. And
yet, the ant was in a measure responsible for its misfortune.
It had realized the danger and hovered over it, believing
that its vigilance was sufficient protection. He had known
where flowed the river into which he had leaped, but he
had thought that he could leave it before arriving at the
fatal rapids, from which there could be no extrication.
Not far from him was the cataract which descended to the
abyss of eternal woe, its sheet of falling water, its
projecting rocks, its appalling roar. If the ant passed into
the still haven, he would believe that he might likewise
escape. If, swept on by the angry waves, it perished, he
would have no prospect of avoiding a .similar fate.
Anxiously he awaited the result on which in a spirit of fatalism
he had based his hopes.

The ant, struggling, floated toward the rapids. The
movement, however, was not decisive, and it swam nearer
to the shelter of the right bank, where it lay hesitating
between the shore and the stream. It again circled, and
entering the current, was carried toward the point of a
limb which separated the still and the agitated waters.
Poised an instant in mock deliberation, it was hurled into
the rushing waves. Montcalm was seized with a resolve
to rescue the creature. He ran to a stick, which he
clutched. When he turned to the brook, the ant had
disappeared. He bent over the spot where he had last seen
it, he rushed down the stream, he splashed the water with
the stick. Not a trace could he find of the insect whose
fate he had identified with his own.

"Why, what are you trying to do?" said a voice, at
the sound of which he started in alarm, "dragging the
river for a dead body?"

The speaker was Durgenson, who was spending Sunday
with Sparks and who had approached, unobserved,
during Montcalm's preoccupation. He wore a wide-brimmed
straw hat and a suit of plaid clothes, with a sack
coat which fitted tightly his full muscular figure. "You
don't look well," he continued, without waiting for a reply
to his question. "Ratke isn't in the habit of working
his hands hard enough to hurt them."

"No," said Montcalm, "I am not overworked. I have
been awake a great deal nights. I think I will leave the
locality soon. I want sleep and a change of scene."

"That is what you ought to have," remarked Durgenson.
"You have worked harder than people have any
idea of. Now, I'll bet something handsome you can tell
who hit old Green."

"Are you any better than I, you swindler?" retorted
Montcalm. "You have tricked honest men of small
means, from whom I would have been ashamed to take a
dollar. I once owned aconscience, but you never had
one."

"Oh, there's no use getting in a pet, Trace," responded
Durgenson good-naturedly. "I didn't mean anything.
I've come to bring you some money. That ought to put
you in better humor. Suppose we settle to-day."

"I have long been wanting a settlement," replied
Montcalm. "How much did the last horses bring?"

"The last I sold were the ones they had such a hunt
for," said Durgenson. "They brought four hundred
dollars."

"Four hundred dollars!" ejaculated Montcalm in surprise.
"Madge T. alone ought to have sold for more than that!"

"I can't help that," returned Durgenson. "You can't
take advantage of the market where you are dealing in
such property. You have to dispose of it the best way
you can. Here is two hundred dollars. That makes us
square, don't it?"

"No," responded Montcalm, "you owe me a great deal
more. I have done the planning for your enterprises and
you have reaped the benefits. When I told you of the
oat scheme, you agreed to pay me well for the time I
spent. I worked at it until I had it perfected. You
made thousands of dollars from it. Where is my share?
I laid the plan of the Guerrero Mining Company and
studied weeks to perfect it. Excepting the one share
which I sold, what has it availed me?"

"Well, now, that hasn't panned out much yet," said
Durgenson. "I expect it will pay."

"There is one matter I would like to speak about,"
said Montcalm. "I have made but few requests to you,
and you ought to be willing to grant this one. You have
Major Ratke's farm in your possession. You are now
trying to get the proceeds from the Barton hundred and
sixty. Take the old farm if you will, but let him have
that fragment of his estate. I ask it as a personal favor,
Durgenson."

"Now, that is asking a great deal," remarked Durgenson.
"You want me to let him go after he is once in my
hand. You helped to catch him yourself."

"So I did," replied Montcalm," and I have a right to
insist that part of my wishes concerning him shall be
carried out. I have hated myself ever since I entrapped
him."

"I'll see about it," said Durgenson. "Say how much
you want a day for your work."

"Fifteen dollars," answered Montcalm, "and I put in,
call it ten days."

"All right," said Durgenson, "That is satisfactory,
I'll make it two hundred, and then you'll be satisfied.
The oat business, though, was profitable. It was well
got up, too. The name was worth a fortune. If it had
been Chinese or Russian, the farmers might not have bit,
but Nijni Novgorod, they couldn't stand that. I suppose
you've no objection to getting a thousand more?"

"What do you want done?" inquired Montcalm.

"You see," answered Durgenson, "there's a fellow I
don't like the looks of, not that he's homelier than other
folks, but he don't look good to me. Now, I want that
fellow got out of my sight, out of everybody's sight."

"What do you take me for, you scoundrel?" exclaimed
Montcalm, "a cutthroat? I am bad enough, but I will
not kill a man for hire."

"Why, you are getting conscientious," sneered Durgenson.
"You never used to have any such compunctions.
There's a man in the graveyard that would have been
walking around if it hadn't been for you. When did you
get virtuous?"

"Are you the one to twit me of vice?" angrily cried
Montcalm. "You have encouraged me in it and fattened
on my misdeeds. When I first knew you, I was an innocent
boy, determined to make an honest man, I had no
more thought of becoming what I am than you have of
giving your property to a benevolent institution.

"My father died, my mother was in poor circumstances,
and I was obliged to work in order that I might finish my
college course. You hired me at first to bring cattle to the
east. You made great professions of honesty and of concern
for the welfare of others. In this way you won my
confidence. Then you convinced me it was right to run a
saloon, that if we did not some one else would and the
liquor would still be drunk. From selling whisky, you
lured me to swindling. You told me that every man
must look out for himself, that honesty is the cant of
hypocrites or the practice of fools, that the only wisdom is
in looking to self-gain regardless of right or wrong.
When you had schooled me well in swindling, you drilled
me in horse-stealing, awarding me the danger and you the
profit. I tell you, Durgenson, I am going straight to hell
and it is you who have sent me. I said I was going to
hell. I have been there. I am there now, and I can
hardly restrain myself from pulling you in after me."

Durgenson started back, appalled by the terrific aspect
of Montcalm, whose hand was raised aloft, whose face
was deadly pale, and whose eyes were blazing almost
with the fire of lunacy.

"Hold on!" expostulated the cattle-buyer. "Don't
talk so loud! Somebody will hear you."

"What do I care if they do?" returned Montcalm,
raising his voice still higher. "You have ruined me and
are laughing at me for it. Why should I not ruin you?
If killing myself would atone for half the evil I have done,
I would blow out my brains! If shooting you would
restore that old man his farm, you would not live an
instant!"

"For God's sake. Trace," Durgenson said, "don't act
so! You are crazy. What do you mean by saying you
have been to hell?"

"Do you intimate that I lie?" asked Montcalm
fiercely.

"No, no," said Durgenson, his astonishment and
alarm increasing. "Of course you know where you've
been."

"Yes," said Montcalm, with perfect composure, "I was
in hell all night. I shall soon go back to stay forever.
I am a devil and I know well the final home of devils.
You had better leave me. There is no telling what violence
you may tempt me to do."

"That is about what I was thinking," replied Durgenson,
jumping across the brook. "You don't know who
I can get to do the job I spoke of, do you?"

"The fellow who keeps so many dogs," said Montcalm.

Durgenson walked in the direction of Sparks', wondering
at the sudden change in his hitherto devoted helper.
Montcalm, exhausted in his weakened state by the violence
of his passion, sat down at the foot of a tree. When
he had been seated a few minutes, he separated a letter
from a bundle of papers in his pocket. It was written in
a quaint, round hand, which would have been taken at
once for that of an old lady.

    Cortland, N. V., June 30th, 187--.

    My Son Traceworth:

    It has been a long time since I have heard from you. The last
    letter you sent was when you gave me that fifty dollars. Now that
    I am alone, I don't know what I should do if Cod hadn't given me a
    good boy. You must have changed some since I saw you. That
    was five years ago. You used to write once a week regularly. Now
    you don't let me hear from you oftener than once a month. It seems
    so different now from what it did when we were rich. But it was all
    for the best. I have provisions enough. All I need now is to hear
    from my boy. I pray for you every day, Traceworth, two or three
    times a day. You know there was a spell when you didn't keep
    good company. Remember what I have told you and keep away
    from bad men.

    Mother.

Montcalm put the letter with the papers into his pocket.
Gloomily he left the woods to mingle in society which he
hated, to listen to words the import of which he did not
comprehend, to profess gayety while body and mind were
being eaten away by the canker of remorse.


CHAPTER XV.

IVANHOE CRITICISED BY A MASTER

To the delight of the farmers there were indications of
rain. Across the sky was drawn a curtain of cloud, which
was uniform in appearance, except where it was slightly
varied in shade by different degrees of density. From it
fell a fine mist, which was welcomed as the harbinger of
plentiful showers. Ratke's hands were gathered in the
club-house, for the major would allow neither man nor
beast to work in the storm on his premises.

Wingscheut, who that day was out of employment,
joined his former fellow laborers for a visit.

"Helloa!" exclaimed Thompson, approaching John,
who was seated in the chamber. "What book you
got?"

"Ivanhoe," replied John. "Did you ever read it?"

"Yes," returned Thompson, "that is, part of it, but I
didn't go much on it. I couldn't make no sense out o'the
thing."

"Tell me about it," said John.

"Oh, there ain't much to tell," said Thompson. "It
don't amount to nothin'. There was this Iverhoe, he was
a slow ole genius, took him all day to do a little bit, then
there was a templar. He was black, a Nigger or an
Injun, I don't know which. Then there was a maiden,
an' the'd rip an' tear around after her to beat all. They
had the funniest way o'fightin' you ever heerd of. They
had spears, just like fish spears, only they didn't have but
one tine. They couldn't do nothin' till they took them
spears and got their horses to goin' lickety-larrup. But
I've got the dandy book.

"What is the name of it?" asked John.

"'One-eyed Zeke,'" replied Thompson. "This Zeke, he
was death on the Injuns. He'd make game of all of 'em
he got in sight of. He'd shoot off his rifle, an'
then he'd take a revolver in each hand. There wa'n't
nothin' he couldn't do. One time they got 'im, but he
let 'em. They'd been a-wantin' to git a steamboat on the
river; so Zeke he run her to shore and pertended to be
a-snoozin'. The Injuns, Ihey come an' catched 'im and
tied 'im, but they couldn't run the boat; so they had to
let Zeke loose. Zeke, he told 'em to keep stuffin' in the
wood an' a-stuffin' it in. Byme by he thought 'twas time
to skip, an' so he dropped in the water. Then the biler
busted an'blowed 'em all up, all but Zeke. Oh, that Zeke,
he was a tearer! He'd killed more'n forty while this
'ere Iverhoe was a-gittin' his spear ready."

Unable to pursue his reading in quiet, John descended
to the ground floor. The outside door opened and in
walked Panicky.

"Here you are again," said Daggett, "You're just the
man I want to see."

"I like to come where I'm wanted," replied Panicky,
taking from his shoulder the strap to which his satchels
were slung. "There's once in a while a place where they
don't appreciate me. But that's what a benefactor of his
race must expect. They're persecuted and cursed by the
ones they help the most. I'm nothing but a martyr. I'm
out in all kinds of weather to give people the benefit of
my medicine. It's my mission. You see the hump on
my shoulders. I made that carrying my satchels, trying
to benefit humanity. When I'm dead and gone, folks will
know what they've lost."

"We're partial to the martyrs," said Daggett. "It ain't
often we see a real one. Sometimes they come snides on
us, fix 'em up bogus, Like Barnum's mermaid. You come
just when you're needed, Panicky. We're all sick, and we
want some martyr to tone us up. Wingscheut here wants
a bottle of your panicky on his leg."

"No," objected Wingscheut. "it's a crowin'-out."

"What are you using on it?" inquired Panicky.

"Vell," answered Wingscheut, "tat's for you to fint out
if you can, I'll tell for fife tollars, unt you can sell it
to chust as many folks as you vant to."

"Got a touch of summer complaint, have you?" asked
Panicky, addressing Sheppard.

"Got nothin'," returned Jake. "I'm tough as a biled
owl."

"Bad spell for general debility," said Panicky to
Montcalm. "I see it's hit you bad."

"I am quite well," replied Montcalm. "If you think
you can beat me pitching hay we will try it when the sun
comes out."

"John," said Daggett, "get your fiddle and play us a
tune. I want to shake my feet."

John brought down a recently purchased violin and
played a lively air, to which Daggett beat an accompanying
tattoo with his feet.

"Now, I'll tell you what we'll do, Panicky," said
Daggett, "and that's the best offer we'll make, that is, I'll
go in for it if the rest of the boys will. If you'll step in
there and dance a jig, we'll buy a partnership bottle of
your panicky. What do you say, boys?"

Panicky objected, but Daggett assured him that he
could sell his medicine to them in no other way. Accordingly
the two stepped into the middle of the room and
began to dance a quickstep while John played. The
music was quickened. Daggett was the first who failed to
keep pace with the rapid notes. Panicky's superiority
over his rival was now unquestioned. His body was
nearly stationary, but his feet and legs twisted and turned
like those of a jumping-jack; and from underneath them
came a clatter which was almost like the rattle of a snare
drum. He would not have lagged behind the music had
its rate not been still further increased by John. As it
was, he missed a few steps, recommenced further on, and
at last, becoming hopelessly entangled, passed to the
outside of the circle.

"He's the best player I ever heard but one, and he was
a foreigner," said Panicky, after John had gone. "Do
you know where he come from?"

"He won't tell any one that," replied Daggett. "It's
queer, too. I never heard him speak of his folks or
where he's been before he come here."

That night John did his chores early. He was in the
parlor before dark, for there was a matter which he wished
to talk over with Manie. How strong were his hopes,
what an unwonted confidence he had in the future as he
entered the room and she greeted him with a smile.
Despite her kind welcome he dreaded to broach the subject
for which he had come. That which he had deemed
assured now appeared very doubtful, and his voice grew
so unsteady that he dared not ask his intended question.
Just as his timidity was getting under subjection, Ratke
opened the door and taking a seat beside him, began to
discuss moral theories, for which, in the absence of
Montcalm, he was anxious to find a listener. To the
major and his niece John threw his glances, hesitating
between a desire to please and to get rid of the
troublesome philosopher. Ratke, exhausting the first subject,
commenced another.

To one of the philosopher's questions which he had
imperfectly understood, John ventured an affirmative
answer.

"The same, then, you say," replied Ratke. "It is
called the identical wave, but I cannot understand its
right to claim identity, when it bears to it hardly a
resemblance. It has undergone each of the two changes
to which matter is subject. It is increased in size, and
altered in composition. A political movement begins.
Its authors die and are succeeded by leaders whose creeds
and practices are antagonistic to theirs. The founders
advocated thrift, economy, simplicity and progress; the
followers advocate useless offices, vast expenditures, pomp
and an adherence to methods the only recommendation
of which is that they were necessary in an emergency.
Patriotism and virtue have turned to self-interest and
corruption. Why should we call this miserable relic the
old party, when it has preserved its being neither in men
nor in principles, only in name? Answer me that, John."
"I see," said Ratke, "my words, sent to your brain
without making an impression, form a case of total
reflection. In the physical world this is possible only from
a highly burnished surface but it is not so in the mental.
The liability to total reflection increases as the square
root of the intellectual vigor decreases. No offense is
intended, John. Your age and the circumstances in which
you are placed make the rule not applicable to you. No
doubt you have heard enough about the wave and you
want now to see its posterior as it recedes."

With this good-natured conclusion the major rose and,
taking a book from the library, went to the dining-room,
where he was obliged to hear a harangue by Mrs. Grippin
on the scarcity of wood.

John had fancied that when his employer left, he would
have no difficulty in stating the nature of his errand; but
when he was alone with Miss Ratke, his old timidity returned.
He would have been able to perform his mission
at once had it not been for another request in reserve,
which he wished her not to suspect.

On this account he broached topics which were foreign
to the theme uppermost in his thoughts. Finally he delivered
this unscientific preliminary, "I am going to the
concert at Oakville to morrow night."

"I hope you will have a good time," said his companion.
"It is a local affair, I believe. Still, it will be
quite interesting. They, have some good singers there."

"I would like to have you go," said John, trying to
assume a careless manner. "Will you be at home to-morro
night?"

"Certainly not all the time if I go with you," responded
Miss Ratke, "and I believe I shall accept your invitation."

"Thank you," answered John, "I will call at about six."

"Very well," said Manie, "I promised Jennie Holmes
to come to her house to-night and I must be going."

John had performed his errand, yet he lingered at the
door feeling that he had something still to tell. At last
he said, "Good-bye."

"Good-bye," said Manie in surprise, "for how long?
Not quite a day."

"I hope not more than that," replied John. "But I
have found that my expectations are not to be depended
upon. That prospect on which I calculate most is apt to
be most completely dissipated."

He tried to keep warmth from his words and tones that
they might not betray his longing to indulge in passionate
utterance, utterance which, he thought, would warn
Manie of the depth of his feeling and banish him from
her beyond the possibility of a return. His whole being
fought against the restraint. He threw back at her another
look and saw a glance which appeared to contain
encouragement, but which he could not analyze with certainty.
An apprehension seized him that a golden opportunity
was passing away, but its place was taken by another that
speech would destroy a growing prospect. Their separation
promised to be short; and yet, as if he were about
to start on a long journey, he felt a desire to bid her a
second and different farewell.

Checking himself with the fear that he had already
said too much, he left her presence. The next night he
would stake his hopes on a revelation to Manie, which, if
all circumstances were considered, did not promise a
satisfactory result. He was not confident. He shut his eyes
to the consequences, while a dread of failure was using its
influence to dissuade him from his design.

In the backyard he met Montcalm, who thus addressed
him:

"There is a little matter I meant to have spoken to you
about before. Suppose we take a walk."

"I cannot now," responded John, "I have an engagement."

"Accommodate me as soon as you can, then," said
Montcalm.

"Any time to-morrow," replied John, hastening to the
club-house.

He stayed a few minutes in the chamber and, bringing
down his violin, was about to leave the building when
Daggett stopped him.

"What, John, you ain't going away?"

"I must," Wrengell replied.

"Oh, pshaw!" ejaculated Daggett, "that's just the way
when we need you. Well, go it. I don't blame you."

After Wrengell's departure, Montcalm entered the
clubhouse and asked concerning his whereabouts.

"He's gone," answered Archer, "took his fiddle and
gone."


CHAPTER XVI.

MRS. BOYLE'S HOUSE.

From Ratke's Wrengell proceeded eastward. As he
passed Takum's, he was loudly greeted by the dogs. They
were, however, recalled by Philetus, for an infuriated
Irishman had lately hurled a club with such force and
precision that the larger pup had been permanently lamed
and subsequently sold at a sacrifice. In the increasing
darkness the great tamaracks, which were near the center
of the causeway, could not be separately distinguished,
but their masses cast a gloomy shade over the road and
were easily discerned even against the clouded sky.

John stopped at Wallace's house, the door of which
was opened by Julia.

"Come in," said the maiden. "You live to the major's,
don't you? Take off your hat and stay awhile."

"That is where I live," answered John. "Thank you,
I cannot stop."

"Oh, now you better come in," insisted Julia, "It's
just as cheap to set in the house as it is to poke around
outdoors. Pa and Ab are gone away to-night, plague
take 'em. I'm all alone and so lonesome I don't know
what to do. We could git acquainted in no time."

"Can you tell me the way to Mrs. Boyle's?" asked
John.

"Why, it's too dark to git to Mrs. Boyle's," said Julia.
"Of course I'll tell you the way, though. You go right up
here to the first corner. Then you want to turn to your
right. Then you take the first turn to your left. Then
you take the first turn to your right. Then you go past
two houses and you'll come to a gate. It's a funny gate,
and I'll bet a cooky you never see one like it before. It's
got a great monstrous beam on the top, and way on the
end of that beam there's a box, and the box has got some
big stones in it. You'd think it would be all you could
do to lift it, but it swings around just like nothin'. Ole
McDuff always makes his gates in that way. Well, you
go in there and bear to your right till you come to a stake
and rider fence. You foller that fence to the woods, and
there you'll strike a path. That'll take you to Mrs.
Boyle's. But you'll git sick of it. It's awful dark. You
better come in and stay with me. We'll have a high ole
time."

"It is impossible," replied John. "I promised to go
to Mrs, Boyle's. Thank you for your information."

"Say," exclaimed Julia suddenly. "I know the way
and you don't. I better go along with you and show
you."

"I am much obliged," returned John, "but I can find
the way from the description you gave. I do not want
you to take any such trouble."

"No trouble at all," replied Julia. "I'll be right out."

"No," said John firmly, "I would rather go alone."

"Go it, devil," cried Julia angrily. "Start your stumps.
Don't you never come here again."

A little more than half a mile from Wallace's John
came to four corners and turning south, recrossed the
swamp, which near this point curved to the eastward.
He reached the end of the road, which bent to the left,
proceeded a short distance, circled to the right and
presently arrived at the gate which had been described by
Julia. He found it, as she had said, easy to open.
There was comparatively little friction at the hinges, and
the ponderous beam was so balanced by the end and box
of heavy stones that it did not require lifting. The path
went with many variations to the stake and rider fence,
where it was straight until it reached the woods. The
fence, higher at this place than at others, was securely
staked and wired. Evidently it had been knocked down
by careless pedestrians and rebuilt by the owner of the
land in such a manner as to prevent all depredations
except those of a wanton character.

He was rejoiced when he stood at the edge of a clearing,
from the farther side of which glimmered a light.
His troubles were not yet over. Between him and the
house were thickets of blackberry bushes, which caught in
his clothes and scratched his face and hands. As he
descended the rise of ground at the border of the woods, the
light disappeared, and he groped without guidance to gain
his destination. When he emerged from the thicket, he
found that he had gone some rods out of his way.
Congratulating himself that he had escaped with so few
inconveniences on so dark a night, he advanced to the
house and was admitted by the cattle-buyer, Durgenson.

The cottage into which John stepped was small and
humble, but comfortably furnished. In a corner of the
principal room, which was at once kitchen and parlor,
was a safe with scalloped newspapers placed over the top
and hung on the doors. Near the safe was a table on
which rested some curious stones and a few books. The
walls were covered with paper, and from them were sus-
pended pictures of little art, too long drawn to be called
new, and too modern to be ranked as antiquities. That
a person of Christian principles had assisted in furnishing
the house was indicated by two Bibles, some Sabbath
school papers, some religious works, including the life of
Whitefield and Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, and a
cardboard motto worked in zephyr which read, "Nearer,
my God, to Thee." The only occupant of the cottage
besides Durgenson was a dark-complexioned young man
who had a short, bristling mustache, a sullen, resolute face,
and eyes which were ever eluding the scrutiny of those
whom he met. This evasion of the gaze of others resulted
not from timidity, but from a desire to keep his
thoughts to himself. Indeed, no sagacious observer
would have ascribed cowardice to him, for such an
imputation would have been contradicted by his every
appearance. The lamp on the table was surrounded by
millers, which darted against it, but were prevented by
the chimney from reaching the flame. The young man
busied himself by catching them, thrusting them into the
lamp, and watching their death struggles with the keenest
interest. When Durgenson introduced him, he shook
Wrengells hand, still averting his eyes, and immediately
resumed his occupation of catching millers.
