circumstance would awaken the slumberer, went to his
bedside, and, taking down his violin, which hung over his
head, commenced to play a lively air. The music had
been in progress not a minute, when the loud talking on
the ground floor ceased, and Brown called "Helloa! what's
the racket up there, Will? Less go up, boys," he added
as the playing continued.

Wrengell had barely time to throw down the violin and
get into bed before the men were in the chamber.

"He's learned a new piece," said Daggett, "and he's
improved mightily."

"'Stonishin'," remarked the Canadian, Thompson.

"Why, boys," exclaimed Daggett, as the sleeper exhaled
a deeply rumbling current of air, "he's asleep."

"Did he play that in his sleep?"

"He must of," replied Brown.

"Less wake him up," said Daggett.

"I tell you vat," observed Wingscheut, "you can push
unt you can pull, put tey can't no man vake up Vill
Archer."

Straws, snuff and pepper were applied to his nose, but
their sole effect was to make him give uneasy sniffs and
change his position.

"Say," exclaimed Brown, dragging him half out of bed
and at last getting the sleepy eyelids to unclose, "why
don't you play like that when you're awake?"



CHAPTER VI.
THE GUERRERO MINING COMPANY.

It was a model spring day. The snow had quite disappeared,
and the ground was relieved of its superabundant
moisture so nearly that the roads were in fair condition
for the passage of teams. Ratke's barnyard, tracked up
by the stock, was a lone quagmire, surrounded by stretches
of solid earth.

Montcalm had just returned from Break o'Day, where
the major had sent him for the mail. Ratke, wishing to
avoid the unpleasant observation of Mrs. Grippin, made a
detour and reached the barns in time to help him unhitch
the horse.

"Here are your cigars," said Montcalm, extending a
wooden box as Ratke drew near.

"What cigars?" asked the major.

"Do you not remember?" Montcalm queried; "you bet
me a box of cigars that the company to which I belong
would accept you as a member? I felt sure of the wager,
but you have won it."

"You should have known better than to bet with me,"
said the major, taking the cigars. "I have seen more of
the world than you have."

"I have discovered that to my cost," replied Montcalm.

"I am anxious to hear the revelation which the company
allows you to make," said the major.

"Very well," said Montcalm, "but first you must sign
this agreement not to disclose the information you receive.
It is a mining company," said Montcalm, when Ratke had
signed the printed agreement, "and is located in the
province of Guerrero, Mexico. Two miners of Chicago
got tired of prospecting out West and finally went
southward. South of the city of Mexico they found what
they believed to be rich diggings. They returned to
Chicago and interested some men of moderate means, who
formed the Guerrero Mining Company. In their excavations
they came upon many curious relics, such as pottery,
weapons and bodily ornaments. They exhumed a skeleton
seven feet in length, with silver bracelets on its arms and
ornaments of the same metal on its legs. The scientific
men have disputed as to the date of its interment.
Professor McDowell claims it is the remains of an Anahuac
who lived previous to the union of that tribe with the
Chicimecs, while Dr. Hartsuff is equally positive that it is
a relic of the ante-Toltec period. Professor McDowell is
writing a work on the ancient races, which he intends to
publish as soon as the existence of the mines is generally
known. What is your opinion on the subject, Major?"

"We will discuss that some other time," replied the
major, who was not particularly well posted on American
aboriginal history, and who wished to consult his
authorities before committing himself.

"Here is the letter which they wrote me," said Montcalm.

"They seem like candid fellows," remarked the major,
after perusing the missive. "Notice that, Trace.

"'Major Ratke's reputation as a veteran of the Mexican
war is such that we are not afraid to trust him with the
knowledge he wishes. A new mine has been opened, and
we can let him have one share of stock, provided he sends
us his application for membership as soon as the fourteenth
of March.'

"You see," continued the major, "they have heard of
me. The people are beginning to revere the veterans of
the Mexican war. But they have picked up specific
information about me. Are there any of my old comrades
in the company?"

"I do not know," replied Montcalm. "They may have
read in the histories of your military exploits."

"No," said the major; "my name was mentioned in the
newspapers which gave an account of the war period, but
it never appeared in history. Tell me something more
about your company."

"All its members whom I know," said Montcalm, "are
men whose characters are beyond reproach. They wish
to keep the knowledge of the mines from the money kings,
until they have occupied the best diggings. They pay a
quarterly dividend of fifteen per cent, on the capital. That
is sixty percent, yearly. Mr. Bruce, a friend of mine, who
used to live in Cortland, gave me the chance of membership."

"I like your company," said the major, "because of
the men of culture who are in it and who prop it with
respectability. Where are you going, Trace?"

"To the woods," answered Montcalm. "I have not
yet worked up that old tree-top."

"What is the use of your being in such a hurry?" asked
the major impatiently. "You have not told me all about
the mining enterprise."

"I will do so at noon, to the best of my ability."

"One thing troubles me," said Ratke, "and that is the
mortgage on my place. Unless relief comes, the farm
must be sold in July. I hoped that I might die where I
had lived in the prime of manhood. Here I have planned
and worked. In that tool-house have been generated
those mental children, whose births have cost me the
pangs of labor, whose nurture and development have been
my constant care, and which, I had hoped, would be the
comfort of my declining years. If I am to be driven from
my home, it would be a solace to know that that building
will be pointed out as the one in which were cradled the
creations of a mighty inventive genius."

"I trust that you will not be reduced to so poor a
consolation," said Montcalm. "My father was heavily in
debt, and he paid the mortgage on his place."

"How did he manage it?" inquired Ratke.

"The mortgage so nearly covered the real value of the
property," answered Montcalm, "that it was difficult for
him to obtain the money. He was obliged to give his
creditor a deed of the farm and take a bond for the
deed."

"A bond?" queried Ratke.

"Yes," responded Montcalm; "his creditor bound himself
by a forfeit of $20,000, to deed back the property,
provided the debt was paid at the specified time. My
father cleared the place of the incumbrance in three
years."

"If I could get such a chance," said the major, "I
would accept it. Of course it would be a risk. But, 
unless something is done, I am certain to lose everything.
Times are hard, and nothing will sell now. Land would
bring a very low price if it were put up at auction. In
case my property must go, I would rather see it pass into
other hands than Green's. Stay a little longer. Trace."

"I am paid for my time," answered Montcalm firmly,
"and I must improve it."

"Just like your father," said the major. "Nothing ever
kept him from duty. Well, since you will go, I will make
it as easy as possible for you. You can take the one-man
saw."

After Montcalm's departure to the woods, Ratke seated
himself on a log which was on the south side of the 
central barn. The sun, whose warming rays are most
appreciated after a hard winter, beat down with just
enough heat to make the position one of comfort. The major,
enjoying the delightful temperature of the place, glanced
upward to note the spot where the lines of heat struck the
barn-boards and were reflected downward to him. He
located the angle of reflection formed by that most pleas-
ing ray which touched the back of his neck. It was above
and at the right of a protruding nail and under and to the
left of an oval knot. This done, he traced out the normal
which with the perpendicular completed the plane of
reflection. He estimated how far away must be an object
which interrupts the sun's rays, to produce a cold wave
sixty seconds from the time of interruption.

Opposite to his dwelling the hired men were engaged
in the work of transferring the hill to the quagmire. Some
of them were laboring faithfully enough. There were,
however, two notable exceptions. Wingscheut and
Archer, on the sunny slope of the elevation, out of sight
of the house and, in their opinion, of the major, were
seated on the ground kicking up the dirt with their heels.

Ratke wished that he could bar from them temporarily
the calorific or heat rays of the sun, so that the mild
climate of the hillside would be changed to the frigidity
of winter. How he would enjoy watching them as the gradual
decline in temperature came on. They would slap
their hands and stamp with their feet and put off the
hardship of work as long as they could, but they would have
to -- yes, they would have to, get up and shovel or freeze.
Then, when they were industriously at their work, he would
remove the obstacle and let the pleasant warmth again
stream down upon them. Of course there would be a
relapse of laziness and a consequent reapplication of the
remedy, but they would soon learn that friction develops
heat, that there was a relation between the action of the
shovel and the transmission of the calorific rays, and he
would have the power of securing efficient service from his
hired men.

A foreign body passed between him and the scene of
labor. To the preoccupied major the object seemed to
divide, the under and larger piece remaining stationary,
while the upper portion fell off and continued to advance.
With an effort the major drew his attention from the hill
and recognized Durgenson, a cattle-buyer and dealer in
agricultural implements.

Durgenson also dealt occasionally in horses and sheep,
and was well liked in the community for his square
dealing, his readiness to accommodate and his frank,
jocular manner. The only thing which had ever blackened his
good name in that region was his rumored connection with
the Nijni Novgorod oat scheme, but he had demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the farmers that he was guiltless of
complicity in the fraud. He was a large, square-shouldered
man with a closely-trimmed, full beard which gave
him an appearance sterner at a distance than in close
proximity.

"How is everything, Major?" he said, with the heartiness
which had made him popular among the rural classes.

Ratke, resolved to reap some advantage from the intrusion
on his meditations, broached to the cattle-buyer the
subject of a loan.

"I don't hardly know what to tell you. Major," responded
Durgenson. "I'd like to accommodate. I would. But I don't
see how I can now. Can't you get the money of Berry?"

"I have been to Berry," answered Ratke, "and I have
been to every moneyed man in the county. They all
talk as you do. It will be no risk to you. I will give you
a deed of the farm; and you on your part must sign a
bond to deed it back provided the money is paid at the
specified time."

"I don't see how I can help you, Major," said Durgenson.
"I couldn't let you have a loan any longer than
August. That is, I wouldn't agree to, for I'm thinking
I'll want to use my cash then. That wouldn't pay you at
all. You might better get it of some one that can wait."

"There are no such men in this vicinity," returned
Ratke. "You can let me have it until August, you say.
That may be long enough to save me. Whatever happens,
I do not want the place to go on the mortgage, for I
cannot endure it to be gloated over by Green. I tell you,
Durgenson, I am crowded to the wall, and, unless I
get help, I shall be ruined. I will pay you twenty per
cent interest and secure you so that you can lose nothing."

"Oh, I don't want your twenty per cent," said Durgenson.
"Seven will do me. If I can accommodate you, I'll
be glad. That's all. Of course I'll have to have the
bond just as we talked. Maybe I can let you have it four
or five years. It depends altogether on whether I get in
a pinch or not. I shall have to draw up the papers to
make it payable in July."

"That is satisfactory to me," said the major. "Suppose
we meet at Sparks's to draw up the writings this afternoon."

"All right," responded Durgenson. "By the way, have
you any fat cattle to sell?"

As the major had no cattle of any description to sell,
Durgenson took his departure.

That afternoon in the office of Justice Sparks James
Ratke signed the instrument which gave sections fourteen
and twenty-three and the north half of section eleven to
Hiram B. Durgenson, his heirs and assigns forever. The
major's hand moved unwillingly as he took the pen. The
word "forever" in capitals looked to him unnecessarily
large. He had hitherto refrained from placing an 
incumbrance on the Barton hundred and sixty. But after the
deeding away of the larger part of his property, he went
to Break o'Day and, that he might invest in the Guerrero
Mining Company, mortgaged this, the last of his real
estate.

Returning to his home, he found Mrs. Grippin and
Manie getting a basket of cakes and pies in readiness for
the donation, which was to be held that night.

Manie had accepted the offer of Montcalm's service as
escort. Nora, disappointed in securing the attention of
Fred Loomis, had acquainted Manie with her trouble, and
that model of cousins had exercised her influence on the
major, who had invited John Wrengell to ride in the wagon
with the family. So it happened that Nora and he whose
awkwardness she had mercilessly ridiculed not a week
before sat side by side during the journey to Osborne's.

The major soon after his arrival at Osborne's met a
reverse in his favorite warfare, argument. Lyman Sparks
had brought with him Largess, a nephew of his wife and the
principal of the Sharptown Academy, who, according to
the rural custom, was honored with the title of "Professor."
Professor Largess was an atheist; and the pride of
the Sparks' who were professed Christians, was raised more
by the proficiency of their relative in debate than it was
lowered by, the defeat, of their creed. The professor was
a tall, lank, loose-jointed man, who, while he was talking,
walked back and forth with a bombastic swing and a rising
and falling of his index finger, a habit which he had
probably acquired in the school-room.

As the major was considered the argumentative champion
of Jefferson township, upon him, in the absence of
the minister, fell the task of defending the Biblical account
of creation. This task he strove manfully to perform.
But his efforts were unsuccessful. The professor was well
versed in those evolutionary theories which have sprung up
in the last half century, and especially in such authors as
Spencer and Darwin, who, more than the direct advocates
of infidelity, have sown the seeds of unbelief. The effect
of this logic upon Ratke was something like that produced
upon the Romans by the introduction of Pyrrhus' elephants
into Italy; but, with the perseverance of that stubborn
people, he determined to bring confusion to the opposing
lines by the use of the enemy's own auxiliaries.

The call to supper gave him an interval of rest and an
opportunity to collect his scattered forces, just as the blows
of his opponent were driving him from his last redoubt.
The major was a firm believer in the benefit of an
abstemious diet on brain labor. While he appreciated a good
meal, he liked better a controversial triumph. He ate,
therefore, very sparingly, keeping his mind on the discussion
and avoiding such food as is detrimental to clear
thinking. Of all viands he was fondest of roast pig, and
near him was a young porker prepared by a master hand,
but he withdrew his gaze from the tempting brown as he
reflected that baked pork requires five hours to digest.

He noticed to his satisfaction that Largess was eating
heartily, almost voraciously. The professor had taken
two dishes of oysters, besides pastry and other eatables,
when Ratke passed toward him the platter holding the
pig, which, leaving a liberal share of its contents on his
plate, made a circuit of the table and returned to its
original position. Whenever Largess's supply of meat was
nearly exhausted and his longing glances again wandered
to the platter for which he was ashamed to call, the
obliging major, who was nibbling with pretended relish at
his first piece of bread, politely supplied his wants. And
now the professor took his third and the last remaining
piece of pig from the platter, which had been seized and
passed by Ratke barely in time for it to escape the clutches
of a ravenous farmer at his right.

The major had a suspicion that his conduct in this affair
was not strictly according to the rules of honorable warfare,
that it somewhat resembled the ruse of the Central
African who feeds the hippopotamus pease, or that of the
sons of Jacob who converted the Hivites to circumcision
only to slay them before they had recovered from the rite.
Whatever his scruples, they did not deter him from
maintaining any advantage which he had gained. Approaching
Largess, who was picking his teeth and whose lank
form actually seemed to have grown rotund, he remarked,
"So you claim that all growth springs primarily from
intelligence?"

"Assuredly", replied the professor.

"And intelligence is divided into two kinds---conscious
and unconscious?"

"That is the theory of the leading men of to-day, sir,"
answered Largess.

"And," continued the major, "conscious intelligence
alone possesses the power of definite thought?"

"That is not a debatable question," dryly commented
the professor.

The major congratulated himself that the roast pig was
taking effect.

"Which requires the higher degree of intelligence," he
asked---"the creation of the simple or of the complex?"

"I am not partial to trivialities," angrily replied the
professor. "But, since you wish an answer to every petty
interrogation which you invent, I will tell you. The
creation of the complex requires the higher power."

"Is there not some conscious intelligence about a
tree?" inquired the major.

"Conscious intelligence?" said Largess, uncertain
whether to give a negative or an affirmative answer.
"Why do you ask?" Then, thinking the major's question
a declaration and deciding that it was best to oppose it,
he added, "No enlightened modern scientist ever saw fit
to ascribe conscious intelligence to a tree. It is contrary
to recognized evolutionary theories."

"And time is a period of constant progress?"

"No man of sense ever had the hardihood to dispute
it," answered Largess.

"Now," said the major, "one question more is all I
will ask. What kind of intelligence shaped that top,
which Mr. Osborne's boy has probably had for his amusement?"

"If this is your last," said the professor, "I will have
patience to answer you. It was conscious intelligence."

"Allow me to state several of your propositions," said
the major.

"Proposition I.: Conscious intelligence alone possesses
the power of definite thought.

"Proposition II.: Time is a period of constant progress.

"Proposition III.: The creation of the complex requires
a higher degree of intelligence than the creation of the
simple.

"Proposition IV.: A tree is not created by conscious
intelligence.

"Proposition V.: A top is created by conscious intelligence.

"Do I state your position correctly?"

"We will go back to protoplasm," said Largess. "The
cause of primordial growth is intelligence."

"You wish to ignore my question," returned Ratke.
"I have correctly stated your argument. A top requires
for its construction one kind of wood, a knife and a boy
with little mechanical skill. A tree is composed of many
different elements which I cannot mention. The tree,
therefore, is more complex and requires a higher order of
intelligence. It is not possible for all of your statements
to be correct. You assert, firstly, that the creation of the
complex requires a higher degree of intelligence than the
creation of the simple. And secondly, that the creation
of the complex requires the lower order of intelligence.
Which one of your propositions is wrong?"

"Sir," said the professor, walking back and forth and
resuming the bombastic swing and the rising and falling
of his index finger, "when you confine yourself to reason,
I will answer you. You have no authority from science
to ascribe conscious intelligence to a tree. Time is a
period of progress. When that tree falls, decays and its
substance is in the body of a man, then there will be
associated with it that intangible thing which is called
mind."

"If intelligence is the sole creator," replied Ratke,
"and all growth is self-creating, when you were an oak
you might well be proud of your intellect. Then you
could measure out the exact quantity of each ingredient
necessary to your development, and, at the same time,
tell each rootlet what kind of nutriment it should con-
tribute to the general supply. Had you in weighing let the
balance slip a notch, you would have made an elm instead
of an oak. Then you had knowledge and ingenuity such
as is possessed by no human chemist or inventor. Now,

I doubt if you have ingenuity enough to make a good
ferule. And yet you say time is a period of constant
progress. Professor Largess, you are indebted for your
entanglement not to me, but to yourself."

"Bertrand," said Mrs. Sparks, "come away. I wouldn't
pay any attention to him."

"I will talk no longer with one so unreasonable,"
declared the professor, going toward the bedroom, which
had been made a receptacle of hats and overcoats.

"Largess," began Ratke, following him until the bedroom
door was closed against him, "which one of your
propositions did I mistake? Tell me. Does the creation
of the complex require a higher order of intelligence than
the creation of the simple? Is time a period of constant
progress?"

"My batteries were too strong for him," commented the
major as he was on his way home. "I completely
demoralized him."

"Didn't you tell him he beat himself?" asked Mrs.
Grippin. "And now you're claiming you was the one
that did it."

While they were going along a level stretch of road,
they were passed by Lyman Sparks, Mrs. Sparks and
Professor Largess in a buggy drawn by Sparks' trotter,
Madge T.

"Charge!" shouted Ratke.

The horses instantly sprang into a run. Mrs. Grippin
was saved from falling only by clinging to her brother, and
John and Nora were thrown in a heap to the bottom of
the box.

"James Ratke," shrieked Mrs. Grippin, "you don't
deserve to have any horses. You stop now, for I won't
ride so. You act like a fool."

"Go on. Uncle James," cried Nora gleefully from the
bottom of the box. "Don't you let him beat you, Uncle
James. Oh my! Ain't it fun! We're gaining on him,"

The major ran his team by Sparks, and, wishing to
show that one of his horses excelled in another gait,
steadied Taylor to a trot, allowing the gray Bill to lope
along by his side. The change in tactics cost him his
success in the race, for Sparks, urging Madge T. to the
utmost, again went by him and obtained the lead on a
narrow causeway where he could not be passed and racing
was impossible. After turning the corner west of the
church, the major practiced his team in making a quick
start and in obepng instantly the summons of "Halt!"

"James Ratke," said Mrs. Grippin, when she stood
by their dwelling, "you act crazy. I never saw such a
man. I've a good notion to say I never will ride with you
again."

"I wish," said the major reflectively, "that I had
brought with us the cow I bought of Osborne. I might
have hitched her behind the wagon."

"Yes," retorted Mrs. Grippin contemptuously; "then
you'd have dragged her home. Tie a cow behind a wagon
when you drive."



CHAPTER VII.
MONTCALM TAKES A NIGHT'S RAMBLE.

The spring was advanced to May. A few changes had
taken place at the farm. The major had prosecuted with
more than his usual vigor his various enterprises. He had
improved his Jerusalem wagon. He had exercised a better
supervision over his hired men. He had succeeded in
reducing the hill almost to a level with the quagmire, a
task which, owing to his under-estimation of the number
of grammes of force required for the transfer, or to his
overestimation of the number of ergs of work in his men, had
taken longer than he had expected. Wingscheut, dissatisfied
with the shoveling which he had been obliged to do,
had hired out to Lyman Sparks, where he had found
smaller wages and harder work.

The large clock in the sitting-room had struck eleven,
and the Ratke family and farm hands, with one exception,
had gone to bed. Montcalm, thoughtful and gloomy, sat
in his bedroom. The last month had not been one of
satisfaction to him. He had been accustomed to have
his attentions sought after instead of seeking for an
opportunity to bestow them. Some social triumphs, it is
true, had been his; but Manie, whom of all women he
most admired, had declined to accept his addresses, and
had even hinted that his compliments savored more of
flattery than of sincerity.

Irresolutely the restless hired man rose and peered from
his window. The evergreens, almost touching;; the house,
were moving slightly their branches and emitting a
subdued murmur which was scarcely audible.

Casting off his indecision, Montcalm began to unlock
one of two trunks which were in the room. The trunk
was well fastened, requiring him to press several springs
and to turn a thin key before the lid flew open and its
contents were revealed. Had the major glanced over
Montcalm's shoulder at that moment, he would have been
struck with astonishment; but he could not possibly have
named any considerable proportion of the articles which
he would have seen. There were small saws, iron or steel
implements, and, most curious of all, four large woolen
pads, to which were attached hollow columns of leather
resembling bootlegs, and each of which, when placed upon
the floor, covered an area of more than one square foot.

Picking up the pads and a long steel bar and putting
them into a large sack, Montcalm opened the window and
climbed stealthily to the ground. From the shelter of the
trees he scrutinized the road, which showed no sign of
being traversed. The moon had set, but the stars,
unobscured save by a few thin streaks of cloud, in a
measure made up for the missing light. Passing to the barn
from the lower edge of the shaded walk, he continued his way
at a distance from the road sufficient to escape the
observation of a possible passer-by and was soon in the
rear of the tenement house occupied by Philetus Takum.

His approach was heralded by a suppressed growl, and
Takum's yellow dog, Lina, and two litters of pups, one
about the size of large cats, the other larger than their
mother, came out to give him a canine welcome. The
elder dog with the younger progeny trotted back to the
nest under the house, but the larger pups capered about
him as if desirous to become acquainted.

The place had about it an air of thriftlessness, quite
suggestive of the character of its inhabitants. The fence
which had bounded the yard had yielded to the demand
for fuel, and in the place where a wood-pile had once been
there were left not chips enough to kindle a fire. A light
streamed through a window, from which had been broken
several panes of glass, whose places had been supplied by
a board, some rags and two old hats.

In the house, a female voice was charging Takum with
a neglect to provide wood, and from the loft came boyish
complaints, which were indistinguishable to Montcalm.

"Harv," growled Takum, "you quit your crowdin', or
I'll be up there d'rectly."

Montcalm, going to the rear of some bushes, whither
he was followed by the pups, lifted one of them by the
tail clear from the ground, an act which elicited a
doleful lament, and brought the mother snarling to the
assistance of her offspring.

"Shut up, you brutes," yelled Takum, poking his head
from the door. "What in thunder is the matter with
'em ?" he ejaculated, as the noise continued unabated.

"Why! Mr. Montcalm," he exclaimed, as he suddenly
confronted the visitor. "I didn't know you was here. I
thought somethin' was the matter with the pups by the
way Lina took on."

"And so there was," replied Montcalm. "This one
was clever enough to call you out for me. Get your hat
and come on. Get one you are not used to wearing."

"Ain't it purty light?" asked Philetus. "Seems to me
it is."

"Very well," returned Montcalm, "if you are afraid, I
can get some one else."

"Oh, no, I ain't afraid,' assured Takum. "But I
thought, you know. I'll git my hat right off."

"Get one of those from the window," said Montcalm.
"Do not let your wife know that any one is with you."

Montcalm and Takum traversed the field in front of
Ratke's at an angle sufficient to bring them some distance
in the rear of the leveled hill. As, after crossing several
other fields, they clambered over a fence which bounded
a strip of timber, some sheep fled through the bushes in
alarm.

"Jerusalem!" said Takum. "Wouldn't this be a fine
place for a feller to help himself to mutton? I thought
they was runnin' over by the church. They was last
week. Green keeps his sheep fat, too. But they ain't so
fat as Lyme Sparkses. His sheep is just a wad o' fat.
But of all sheep ole Ratke's. Gosh all Friday ! I wouldn't
eat one o' his sheep for a farm. But say, if you like
chickens, Lyme 'Sparks has got some o' the biggest, fattest
Cochins you ever see. They grow quick, you know.
Why, the meat 'ill almost sqush in your hands."

"I am not hungry for chickens," Montcalm shortly
replied.

"Mebbe you like ducks better," suggested Philetus.
"Green has got some o' the genuine Pekin. We might
as well kill two birds with one stone."

"I have no appetite for ducks," answered Montcalm.
"Let us attend to the business in hand."

"I s'pose nothin'll satisfy you but a goose," said
Takum. "Widder Smith is the only one in this hull
country that keeps geese. They're the plaguiest things to
hook, though, you ever see. They'll get right on the
doorstep an' gabble, gabble enough to wake the nations.
But they ain't none on 'em sharp enough for me. Just you
watch, an' I'll show you a trick that'll make you open
your eyes."

"Is your name Phleet?" inquired Montcalm.

"That's the handle I go by," answered Takum.

"Well, then, Phleet, you have altogether too much
mouth for a man of your size. Do what I tell you to do,
and never mind hens and geese."

"What is that?" he exclaimed, as some animals came
cautiously in view at the edge of an open space. "They
are your dogs."

The older pups, which, alone, had ventured to follow,
were by a few clubs sent yelping back to the residence of
Takum.

"Nice help the boss picked out for me," commented
Montcalm---"a fool and his dogs."

"I'm a-goin' back," said Philetus, "I ain't a-goin' to
stay here to be abused."

"You can go a little ways, if you like," answered Montcalm,
"about a step. At the second I shall shoot you."

Philetus was terrified as much by the kindly tone of
Montcalm as by the savage words with which it was
coupled. So dreadful a threat, uttered in such a manner,
he believed was not an idle one. He followed in silence
his superior, whom he watched with wonder and fear.

Emerging from the woods, they came to a lane which
led to the barns of Green.

"You are working in finely, Phleet," complimented
Montcalm.

"I'm glad you think so, Mr. Montcalm," responded
Philetus in the lowest of whispers, as much pleased at
the compliment as was one of his dogs at his own fondling.

"Lie here by this straw-stack," commanded Montcalm,
as they entered the barn-yard. "I will take a turn about,
the house. Can you tell me where all the folks sleep ? "

"Ole Green and Mis' Green they sleep in the bedroom
this way," answered Philetus, so cautiously that he could
be barely heard. "An' the fool, he sleeps upstairs. An'
say, don't git mad if I talk too much, but mebbe ole Green
ain't gone to bed. He don't always burn lights, just to
save oil, you know."

"I am glad you spoke of that," said Montcalm, taking
the opportunity to soothe Takum's wounded feelings. "I
will be careful."

Philetus, whose nerves had not recovered from the
shock which they had received in the woods, was content
to lie hidden in the straw. He started nervously, as he
heard the whisper of Montcalm, who approached from a
direction opposite to that in which he had set out.

"Everything is all right. Bring on that sack," said
Montcalm.

Green, following the custom which prevailed among
Jackson County farmers, kept his horse-barn locked.
Montcalm drew the steel bar from the sack, inserted
it in the staple, and at a few hearty wrenches twisted the
fastening from its place.

Takum's curiosity concerning the sack, for the
satisfaction of which he had not dared ask a question, had
now an opportunity to be gratified. Montcalm took one
of the strange-looking articles and endeavored to put the
boot-like attachment on the leg of a colt which stood in a
farther stall; but the animal was high-spirited, and he
was obliged to summon Takum to his assistance.

The efforts of both were required to encase the feet of
the colt in the pads. Considerable noise was made by
the beast, as he stepped about trying to keep his feet
from the clumsy coverings by which they were being
cumbered.

Montcalm ordered Takum to stay close to the corn-
crib, which was between the barns and the house, while he
made a second tour about the latter building.

"Everything is quiet," he remarked, as he returned to
his waiting ally. "Both of us must get that horse by the
bridle, one on each side, for he promises to give us some
trouble."

It was as Montcalm had predicted. The animal, when
he comprehended that the bulky articles were on his feet,
shied from side to side and came very near jamming
Montcalm against the corner of a post. But the pads,
soft as boxing-gloves, so muffled the sound that it could
be heard but a few rods; and when the horse trod the
solid ground, his uneasiness abated.

"You may ride if you like," said Montcalm, when they
were in the lane.

"No, I'd rather foot it," answered Philetus, suspecting
that the colt would not prove a docile beast of burden.

With a leap Montcalm lighted on the back of the
horse, which plunged furiously forward, but subsided to a
slower gait when he felt the grip of the master on his
rein. Philetus, afraid to lag behind, raced after his
superior at a pace which severely taxed his powers and
led him to the conclusion that hereafter, should he be
given the choice, he would hazard a possible fall rather
than accept the alternative of certain exertions which
were more violent than pleasant. At the entrance to the
woods Montcalm dismounted and opened the gate before
he was joined by his breathless subordinate. He led the
colt through the timber, as the trees and overhanging
limbs might lead to a casualty should he remain on the
animal's back.

"Say," whispered Philetus, "don't think I'm a-talkin'
too much, but Green calls this colt Billy."

"I am glad you told me," replied the leader. "It may
help me to manage him."

The direction which they were pursuing was southeasterly.
Philetus was astonished to see Montcalm, a
stranger in the neighborhood, lead the way through the
woods with a facility which he, a practiced raider of the
vicinity, could not have equaled. Nor did his surprise
abate when his companion, tying his horse to a sapling,
brought from beneath a rotten log a sack, concerning the
contents of which he was too much intimidated to inquire,
but which he believed to contain a set of large woolen
pads.

They were obliged to let down a fence in order to pass
from the woods. After the rails were put back to their
places, Montcalm told Philetus that he might ride; and
that worthy, remembering the strain to which his legs
were subjected in the lane, gladly accepted his offer.

Philetus had not far to practice his equestrianism. He
passed through a gate, which led into the road and which
Montcalm opened.

The large square house of Lyman Sparks, visible in the
starlight, stood behind its partial screen of small
pinetrees. It was evident from the buildings that the
farm was owned by one whose success had been obtained by
mastering the details of his profession. Not a stray board
could be seen about the premises. Not a picket was
loose in the fence which enclosed the house. The barns
were models of comfort to the stock and convenience to
the farmer; and between them was a straw-stack
symmetrically built and having a neatly rounded top.

In front of the barnyard were some walnut-trees, and to
a limb which hung conveniently low Montcalm tied the
halter-strap of the stolen horse.

"In which barn is Madge T.?" he asked.

"In the one this way, the first stall," answered Takum.

"Stand by that small building," said Montcalm, "and
watch the horse. If you hear any disturbance, notify me
at once."

Philetus was by the protection of a not unfamiliar
retreat, for it was the hen-house which he had so often
visited. His instinct of thieving --- for the propensity
had become an instinct --- was stronger than his fear of
Montcalm, especially in the absence of the latter. In a
very short time he had one of Sparks' matchless Cochins
stuffed inside his jacket. His intrusion aroused a cackling
protest among the fowls, and the dog, which had hitherto
kept quiet, now ran out and added to the tumult. Philetus,
alarmed at the result of his action, went hastily to
Montcalm, and whispered,

"That dog's out, and they can't nobody stop him."

"The pads are all on," said Montcalm. "Help me lead
out this horse, and we will get away immediately."

"Quick, Mr. Montcalm!" said Takum in excitement.
"They're a-comin'! They're a comin'! "

Just then Sparks, clad in his under-garments, shouted
from his back porch,

"Halt! Where be you a-goin' with my horse?"

"Jump on her back," ordered Montcalm. "Ride east
a quarter of a mile and wait. I will join you as soon as I
can."

There was near the barn from which Madge T. had
been taken a third party, whose proximity was not
suspected, either by Sparks or by the depredators. The
vender of "Great American Panacea" repulsed at every
house where he had asked for a night's lodging, had
sought the straw-stack, in the side of which a hole had
been eaten by the stock. The barking of the dog and the
disturbance in the hen-house and in the stable suggested
that he was not the only intruder, and the voice of Sparks
confirmed the indications from other sources. With the
conviction that the location was becoming dangerous, the
peddler picked up his satchels and prepared to depart.
He emerged from the cavern in the side of the straw-stack
at the same moment that Wingscheut, who had dilatorily
followed Sparks and his boy, came around the corner of
the hen-house and confronted him.

Once face to face with the supposed horse-thief, the
German was far from feeling the courage of which he was
wont to boast. His employer and son were on the opposite
side of the barn, and before their arrival to his
assistance, he might be killed by the desperate stranger.
His conduct was determined by the indecision of Panicky.
His valor returned with tenfold intensity as the peddler
whirled, dropped his satchels and made toward the barnyard
fence, and with a wild dash he caught him with his
boasted hiplock and brought him heavily to the ground,
yelling at the top of his voice,

"I'fe cot te tam horse-tief ! I'fe cot te tam horse-tief!"

Poor Panicky clutched the wrists of Wingscheut, whose
intention was mercilessly to pound him. He would have
given the contents of his satchels, of his pockets, even the
clothes he wore, to be placed, unhampered, four feet from
his captor.

"Oh, let me up!" he pleaded, clinging to the writhing
hands, which threatened to descend upon him with crushing
force. "I haven't stole any horse."

"Yes you haf stole a horse," affirmed Wingscheut,
struggling to free his hands, "te pest horse in te whole
country. I'll cif you a face vat von't look coot in 
Suntayschool. Let co my hant, I tell you. Can't you mint
notting? Come kill te tam horse-tief," he added, as Sparks
and his boy drew near.

Montcalm did not wait to see his order to Takura
obeyed. He ran down the graveled drive and to the
walnut-tree before he was passed by Philetus. He had
hitched the horse underneath the tree, the limbs of which
were low, so that he could distinctly see neither the house
nor the barn. An embarrassing difficulty was now presented.
The halter-strap, at which the colt had been
continually pulling, could not be readily untied; and he
had left his knife at home in a pocket of his working
clothes. Pulling and twisting, he managed to break the
limb and disengage the severed extremity from the
halterstrap.


