Montcalm went down the cellar stairs, which were in
front of the stoop. His mask and padded jacket, annoying
incumbrances in midsummer, he stripped off; and
taking an auger from his bundle, he commenced to bore
a hole in the cellar door, basing his calculations on the
account which Nora had given him of its fastening. The
noise, which he subdued as much as he could, might easily
have been mistaken for the gnawing of a rat. He pushed
through the orifice a wire instrument, and lifted a hook
from the corresponding socket in which it rested. The
door, which opened outwardly, he blocked with a stone,
lest it should swing back and cause a strain on some
attachment which he had not yet discovered. He bored a
second and a third hole and cut out the spaces which 
intervened between them. Feeling through the passage
thus formed, his hand came in contact with a string which
he dared not critically examine. By means of the auger and
a sharp knife he further enlarged the aperture until he
could push through it his right arm and the fingers of his
left hand, when, pulling the string tightly from him, he
severed it with his knife and immediately after entered the
cellar. An investigation showed the wisdom of his
precautions. The string was connected with a burglar-alarm,
which, if pulled, would have produced an explosion and
might have brought ruin upon his enterprise, perhaps
discovery to the intruder. Montcalm closed the door and
lighted a small lantern. Boards which supported milkpans
were suspended from the floor above. In a remote
corner of the cellar were some shelves which were in the
course of erection. A broad-ax, a saw and some short
boards which had been cut from the ends of the longer
ones were on the upper of these shelves. Montcalm's
curiosity was excited by a barrel, an end of which a few
feet from the milk-shelves protruded some inches above
the surface of the ground. On examination it was found 
to be the curbing of a well. When Green was poor, his
ideas of economy told him that he could dig a well with
less labor from the bottom of the pit under his house
than from the surface of the ground; and, as he 
prospered, he provided water for his horses and cattle
at the barn, but that necessity of his family was still
carried from the cellar.

Montcalm donned his mask and padded jacket, and again
his exterior coincided with the nature of his errand.
A second flight of stairs led to the upper rooms, and
up these Montcalm passed, bearing his lanter. He stopped
in front of a door, which he pushed gently back and
forth. He knew it was possible that this door, too, was
connected with a burglar-alarm, but he did not think it
probable, as an intruder could reach it only by passing
through another, for security of which greater than
ordinary precautions had been used.

Gradually the door-bolt was worked from its socket, and
Montcalm stepped into a small closet, from which he
emerged into a larger room. Noiselessly going into the
kitchen, he heard the light breathing of Green and his
wife in their bedroom which was, he concluded, fastened
against intrusion. Retreating to and through the closet,
he travered the room above the cellar and came to a
flight of stairs, up which he climed. One of the boards,
as he steppedon it, gave a warning creak, and he lifted
from it his foot and set it on the next stair.

Two bedrooms were partitioned from the main part of the
chamber. In one of these on the floor was a springbed on
which was a lying a man. As the man was long and the
tick was short, about twenty inches of uncovered feet
and legs were hanging over the bare springs. Beyond the
legs were the lean body, the flaxen hair and weak,
expressionless face of William Henry Harrison.

As Moncalm by one of his long legs pulled him crosswise
of the bed, the half-wit excaimed, "Oh, Misser
Green, 'tain't mornin' yet!"

"'Tain't Misser Green," said Montcalm, "but it's some
one that wants to see Misser Green. Tell him to come
up here."

Such was William Henry Harrison's terror at the rude
awakening that he could only stare at the figure, whose
broad shoulders and straggling sandy beard looked
particularly savage in the light of the lantern.

"Call Green up here," said Montcalm.

"Oh, no," answered William Henry Harrison, "I no
call, I feel sick."

"You must do as I tell you. Have him come up
here."

"No. He want to sleep. He git mad."

"And I'll get mad if you don't call him," said Montcalm.
"Tell him to come quick."

"He whip me," objected William Henry Harrison.
"Take a big strap. Maybe he kick."

"Are you going to do as I want you to?" asked
Montcalm, shaking him violently.

"Misser Green," called William Henry Harrison.
"Misser Green, come up here!"

"Call him again," ordered Montcalm, after he had
waited to no purpose for a response.

"Oh, Misser Green, Misser Green, come up here quick!"

"Keep still there, William Henry Harrison," shouted
Green.

"Tell him you are sick," commanded Montcalm.

"Come up here," William Henry Harrison called. "I
sick."

"Get well then," was Green's answer. "I guess you
ain't in much danger. I want to go to sleep."

"Tell him you are awful sick," said Montcalm.

"Oh, Misser Green," wailed the fearful half-wit, "I
awful sick, I goin' to die."

"You'll die if you don't shut up," replied Green. "I'll
come up there and drive you through the floor. Now you
keep still, I don't want to be awake all night."

"Tell him you are going to have a fit," was Montcalm's
next order, "Tell him you know it."

"Oh, Misser Green, I goin' to have a fit. I tell. I feel
it. Oh, come up now!"

"I'll give you a fit if I come up there," yelled Green,
thoroughly exasperated, "Now don't let me hear another
word out of you to-night."

"Tell him you are going to have a hard fit," said Montcalm.

"Oh, no. He come up. He whip."

"Say it quick," ordered Moncalm.

"He say he kill me."

"And I'll kill you if you don't."

"Oh, don't kill. Hurt. Make blood. Aweful."

"Then," said Moncalm, "tell him you are going to have a fit,
and you know you are going to break things."

"Oh, Misser Green," cried the half-wit in desperation,
"I goin' to have awful fit. I break window. I break bed.
I break house."

Montcalm emphasized the appeal by knocking out some
pane of glass, which went ringing below to the cellar wall
and stairs. He also jerked the bed, breaking a crosspiece,
and struck the wall so violently that a yard of loose
plaster fell from the ceiling to the floor. Then he closed
his dark lantern.

"What's that full up to?" exclaimed Green, jumping out
of bed and hastily putting on his trousers. "I'd rather
have a man of sense around and pay him wages that to
bother with an idiot. I'll be right after you, young man!"
he threatened as he proceeded toward the chamber.
"I'll thrash you with an inch of your life! You won't
be having any more fits or fussing for one while. What
is this?" he demanded, as his bare foot struck the plaster
which had fallen in the main part of the chamber. "What
fool's caper is this?"

He started suddendly backward as Montcalm, stepping 
from the door of the bedroom, presented a pistol at his
head.

"Tell me where your money is," said the unwelcome
visitor. "I can't stay here long because my wife expects
me home."

"What money?" asked Green.

"The money you got to-day," replied Montcalm, assuming
a tone which corresponded with his rough garb. "You
can't fool me. I know you've got it."

"It's gone," said Green.

"You lie," said Montcalm, cluching him by the throat.
"Let me know where it is, or I'll blow your brains out."

"It is gone," Green affirmed," that is, the most of it.
I took it over to Sharptown, and I got back just at dark.
I've got two thousand dollars that I saved out for Osborne.
You can ask Jane and she'll tell you the same."

"Show me the two thousand then," said Montcalm, as
he pushed the slide to his lantern," and don't you dare
hang back, or play me any tricks. Here, you fellow on
the bed, you lie where you are till I come back. And
don't you stir. I'll lay this quilt over your legs, just in
this way, and I can tell if it is moved. If I find a wrinkle
of it changed, I'll shoot you when I come back."

So saying, Montcalm adjusted the quilt and followed
Green, who in silence led the way to the cellar. As they
were leaving the small closet, Montcalm's foot
accidentally hit a pair of rubber boots, which went
tumbling down the stairs.

"There it is," said Green, as he pointed to the cellar
wall. "It's behind that stone. You couldn't tell it's
loose, but it is. You'll find it all in a long pocket-book."

"I rather you'd get it," replied Montcalm, following him
to see that nothing of value was left In the hiding-place.

The loose stone was near the unfinished milk-shelves
and to reach it the men were obliged to step over a long
board which lay across some saw-horses. Montcalm depos-
ited his lantern on the board and vigilantly watched the
execution of his order. Reluctantly stepping over another
saw-horse and removing the stone from the mortar,
which at first sight appeared to be solid. Green drew out
a long pocket-book and handed it to Montcalm. They
again stepped over the saw-horse, and Montcalm, opening
the pocket-book, examined its contents. Green saw passing
from him part of the riches the slave of which he had
been and still was. For it he had plowed, sown and
reaped, had taken the poor man's dollar and the widow's
mite, had repeatedly outraged his conscience.

Catching a loose slab, he dealt a sudden blow on the
head to Montcalm, who, staggering back, caught his legs
on the saw-horse and fell. Green followed his advantage. 
He struck again with the slab, barely missing his aim;
but as his weapon was clutched by the unknown burglar,
he precipitated himself upon him. Montcalm whose
movements were impeded by his thick jacket, succeeded
in twisting from underneath his antagonist and regaining
his feet. His mask, which had become unfastened, hung
loose about his neck; and Green partly unnerved him by
giving a yell of recognition and pressing with renewed
vigor to the attack. Having a poor hold of his opponent,
and being in every way at a disadvantage, he felt his
strength begin to fail. As he was crowded close to the
wall, his hand accidentally came in contact with the 
broad-ax. In despair he seized it and struck. The weapon
seemed hardly to touch the man on whom it was turned,
yet that touch was sufficient to send him toppling over,
extinguishing the lantern in his fall.

The cellar was in almost total darkness. The scanty
light which came through the small windows, of which one
was on the north side and one on the west, was lessened
by screens and thick masses of overhanging vines, 
Montcalm threw aside the ax, groped hurriedly and found the
pocket-book, with the intention of escaping before Green
arose. But, as the seconds passed and there was no
perceptible movement on the part of his late adversary, he
felt that he need not anticipate immediate pursuit. He
wondered that the stroke, which had but grazed the head
of his opponent, should produce unconsciousness. An 
unconquerable desire seized him to learn what had been
the result of the blow which he had delivered. The
knowledge, however, could be at once gained only by an
investigation, and from that investigation he shrank.
While he was groping for his lantern, he heard a sound
which filled him with an indescribable dread. It was the
steady trickling of some liquid into the well. Never
before had he been so nervous. He drew from his pocket
a match, struck it against the wall, and dropped it ere his
purpose had been served. With trembling fingers he
took a second match and succeeded in igniting the wick
of the lantern.

The sudden transition from darkness to light at first
dazzled his eyes. He saw barrels, the unhewn wall, the
milk-shelves, and lastly a object which he had previously
overlooked. Green was lying nearly lengthwise of a
plank, which descended toward the well, and which had
one end resting on the curb and the other on an elevated
and hardened bed of water-lime. His head was on the
edge of the plank and nearest the well. A portion of the
trunk and one arm also was on this support, and the other
upper limb was beyond it, while the remaining parts of
the body rested on the ground. No wound was visible,
but from some source a small stream of blood was passing
down a depression in the center of the plank to the
well, where it caused that trickling which had so wrought
upon the nerves of Montcalm. The depredator, as he
turned over the prostrate form, dreaded what his action
might reveal, yet he was not prepared for such a spectacle
as met his gaze. The upper portion of the right side of the
forehead, including the skull and a thin section of brain,
had been cleft and now hung suspended by a piece of
skin. Laid bare by that destructive blow, the cerebrum
showed its peculiar formation, though the convolutions of
its exterior were partly disorganized by the leveling of the
ridges. Much of the gray matter had been shaved from
the surface of the cut, or crowded into the irregular
furrows; so that, mingled with it, was the white from which
the power of transmitting nervous force had been suddenly
and unexpectedly wrested.

A chill passed over Montcalm, which was not wholly a
reaction from excessive heat generated by his physical
struggle. But a few minutes before, and that cloven skull
on which he was gazing had been the habitation of a living
intellect, that amorphous mass of brain had been performing
its normal functions; along those disfigured ridges
had been passing thoughts, which, perhaps, related to self
and self-aggrandizement, but which were those of a 
fellow-being. What though the reflections had been of a mean
and penurious character? What though they had been on
money and usury, on the oppression of the poor? The
interruption of their existence was no human right, and
woe to him by whom they were destroyed. Montcalm
could scarcely believe that the pasty substance which
riveted his attention was not even then the nursery of plans
for revenge upon him, that sight had fled from the eyes,
that the open mouth was not about to denounce him for
his crime. The monotonous trickling into the well prolonged
the spell which bound him, as a sameness of sound,
by holding the external perceptives, sometimes prevents
warning of the approach of deceit and prepares the way
for the capture of the reflective faculties.

With an effort he turned from the senseless body and
started toward the outside door. As he did so, he
stumbled over one of the rubber boots which he had
knocked down in his descent to the cellar, and which had
probably been long thrown aside by William Henry Harrison,
for they were large and full of holes. It was instinct,
instead of deliberative caution, which prompted him to
draw on the boots and walk several times across a strip
of sand, thus making it apparent that the murderer was a
large man, or at least had large feet. The skilled
depredator, who had mastered the details of his profession,
and who habitually had them in readiness for his use, was
actually passing from the scene of the murder, leaving
behind him the lantern and the burglar tools, when he heard
Mrs. Green call anxiously to her husband. That cry in
a measure loosed him from his lethargy of mind. Gathering
up his shoes, the tools and the lantern, he emerged
from the cellar, and walking around to the front of the
house, proceeded an eighth of a mile up the soft road to
the southward, after which he continued his way on the
grass. Then he climbed into a meadow lying between
him and the wood which he had traversed in his approach
to the house. A large, low stump was in his path, and
on it he seated himself with no concern as to the
advisability of his action.

This was, indeed, strange conduct for one whose interest
it unmistakably was to flee from a neighborhood which
might at any moment become dangerous. Possibly the
sound of pursuit might have roused him, might have led
him to take measures for his safety; but it did not come,
and listless and dejected, he kept his seat.

The intervention of the barns kept him from seeing the
house, in which and in whose occupants alone he was
interested. Crossing the lane and reaching the spot where
he had made his exit from the wood, he was able to view
Green's dwelling. A light was in the bedroom in which
had slept the late master of the house.

It soon passed from Montcalm's sight and reappeared
from a window of the upright. Again it was lost to his
view, and again it was visible as it entered the chamber
and shone from the room of William Henry Harrison. It
was plain that Mrs. Green was making a search for her
husband, and probable that she would not abandon it
until she found him in the cellar. Montcalm had no
curiosity or inclination longer to stay so near the place
where he had committed his felonious deed. So, picking
up his bundle, which, as may be supposed, was indifferently
arranged, he trudged slowly through the forest. And
now, for the first time, he experienced a fear, which
approached certainty, that his guilt would be detected.
It was not the abject terror of the coward. It was the 
conviction of a brave man who was willing to struggle
when there was hope, but who believed that he was
menaced by odds which it was useless to resist.

By the edge of the pond he halted. His mind, in that
condition of vacillation which follows a severe shock to
conscience, had veered from indifference, or rather stupor,
to despairing expectation. In an indecisive conflict reason
and imagination contended as to whether the monotonous
night sounds were common and natural occurrences,
or the ominous portents of coming evil. To him the
croaking of the frogs, the low groaning and high wailing
utterances of which came incessantly from the pond,
seemed to be an arraignment against which he could made
no defense.

He removed his outer garments and put on in their
places those which he had stored in the oak. There was
no concealment which he considered safe for the
appliances of burglary and the evidences of murder. Every
location which he thought of had its disadvantages. The
open fields were being plowed and cultivated, the woods
were rambled through by hunters from Sharptown and
Oakville, the swamp was nearly dry and was daily visited
by berrying parties. Bringing his irresolution to an end, he
put them all, the tools, disguise and clothing, including the
lubber boots and his shoes, inside the tree. He placed his
hand to his forehead. The touch was disagreeably harsh,
for his palm was coated with dried and stiffened blood.

Passing over the verdueless circle to the deep hole where
the remant of the pond remained, Moncalm thrust his
hand into the water, that the congealed life fluid might
be soaked and detatched. He applied also some of the
roiled liquid to his forehead, forgetting that little more
than a stone's-throw from him was a clear spring.

As he left the pond, he reflected on the change which
the night's events had wraought in is prospects. he had
meant to abandon evil. While he was in his career of
theiving and swindling, he had marked out his intended
course. He would first accumulate a competence. Then
he would marry some virtuous girl, between whom and
himself existed a strong affection, and he would live a
life of morality, even religion. Vanished was that dream
of happiness. Judicious and good courtship requires
serenity. How could he talk the language of love with such
a secret weighing upon him, when every instant there
posed before him a vision with cloven forehead and protruding
brain? He had been engaged in wholesale trickery
and theft, but blood he had avoided. And now it had
smeared his clothing, his hands and, worst of all, his
memory. An itching sensation was between the fingers of
his right hand. Mechanically feeling with his left, he
found a snake-like body, an extremity of which was
imbeaded in the skin. With a jump he threw from him a
leech which must havve become attached as he bathed in
the pond. It was fully a minute before he realized by how
trivial an object he had been frightened. Again he
encountered the sheep, and again they fled before him. The
act to which he had previously given no significance he
now interpreted as an indication that the very brutes
avoided his presence.



CHAPTER XIII.
"A DANIEL COME TO JUDGMENT."


Ratke and Montcalm attended the inquest over the body
of Josiah Green. Men were standing on the shady side
of the house, on the two porches, and strolling about the
yard. Justice Sparks had ordered the outside cellar door
to be closed, that the body might not be tampered with
before the official examination. The cellar would still
have been easy of access had not Sparks nailed a board
over the hole which had been cut by Montcalm, and which
might have admitted a hand to lift the fastening hook.

"How do you do, Major?" said a large, slightly corpulent
man, with long chin whiskers, a rumbling voice and a breath
which was tainted with whiskey.

"How do you do, Dr. Rorus?" responded Ratke.

"This is a sad affair," observed the doctor, "a lamentable
happening, a bad job. Terrible, terrible terrible," and
Dr. Rorus raised his eyes aloft. "A man, a fellow-being,
struck down, cut off in the very noontide, or, as you might
say, meridian of vigor." At this point the physician took
an uncertain step and waved his fist in the air.

The major, whose own pomposity of language was unconsciously
caricatured by Dr. Rorus, did not fancy listening 
to the drunken harangue, but he was obliged either
to tolerate it or to beat a retreat. His friends had noticed
that immediately after he had met the doctor he was less
pedantic in his conversation, and his philosophical and
historical allusions were less frequent.

"Have they found any trace of the assassin?" asked
the major.

"Strong evidence," responded the doctor, "very strong.
There was a conspiracy. The victim was called up in
the middle of the night and was never seen alive again.
He was called by a certain individual that I won't name
now."

"They will not convict William Henry Harrison on
such proof," said Ratke. "I hope they have stronger
evidence than that."

"The murderer," said Rorus with his customary
redundancy, "the homicide, the execrable monster, the
villain will be punished and put in prison and made to
suffer. With whom is he dealing? With you? No.
With me? No. With a weak man? No. With that
mighty aggregation, that great mass of power, the
commonwealth and the State of Michigan. Oh, the people of
Michigan are a wonderful people. They have developed
and grown up to greatness. Plenty of hardship, plenty of
enemies to fight. There is, or was when they grew up,
the Indian, the bear, the wolf, the panther and the hard
winters and--poverty and--hard labor, terrible hard
and--the fever and--ague, the rattlesnake and--hardship.
The Michigan boy has the enterprise. You can't beat
him. Best in the world."

"Where is Sparks?" asked Ratke. "I would like to
see him."

"Can't say," said the doctor. "Where there's a slight
breeze, there's a cause for it. Where there's a big wind,
there's a good deal more. Evidence must have, has got
to have, facts behind it."

"I understand," said the major. "We will talk this
over some other time."

"There is no denying the fact. Major," declared Rorus,
detaining Ratke by clutching his sleeve. "Brace against
it and it will push you back. Try to shove it along and
it will kick. I will give my drug-store, and my practice,
and my diploma to any scholar, or set of scholars, who
will disprove what I say, or demonstrate that it isn't so,
either one, mind you, either one. There is a chance for
somebody, a big chance."

"Precisely," acknowledged the major, glancing uneasily
about, but disliking rudely to leave his tiresome
companion.

"I claim," said Rorus, "I assert positively, without a
tinge of doubt,there was no profit in that deed, that
atrocity, as you might term it if you was disposed to give it
a hard name. Oh, I don't believe in being mealy-mouthed
with these rascals. In the first place there was no profit
to the killer, the murderer I mean, to be more explicit.
He will go to some saloon, and he'll drink. Then he'll
gamble, and he'll lose what he's got, and he'll fight. And
of course, as he's drunk, he'll get whipped and get a black
eye. So you will admit. Major, there is no profit in a
black eye. I claim, and I defy any man to prove to the
contrary, aye, I challenge the world, there was no profit
in it to Green. If there was, where was it? There was
the house broken into. There was the $2,000 gone."

"Exactly," remarked the major with a sigh.

"Morality pays," pursued the doctor. "That is the
teaching of the greatest philosophers, and thinkers, and
orators, and smart men of the present day, and of the
past, and that ever lived, of Aristotle, and Epictetus, and
Bacon, and Socrates, and Pluto. Oh, that Pluto was a
wonderful man. His philosophy is mild--and gentle--and
beneficent and pleasant."

"If ever you fall into his dominion," observed Ratke,
"you will find it not a pleasant one."

At this juncture, to the major's joy, he was approached
by Sparks and informed that his testimony would be required,
and that the jury, the witnesses and the officers of
the inquest were to go through the house and view the
cellar before the outside door was opened for the
admission of the crowd. Sparks carried a lighted lamp in
order to help their observations.

"Here are his tracks plain enough," said Holmes.
"He wore rubber boots."

"I tracked him down south in the sand as much as
forty rods," said the sheriff, whose unpretentious manner
up to this time had concealed his interest in the tragedy.
"Then he went to one side. There was a ways where the
grass looked as if it had been disturbed. After that I
couldn't follow him at all."

"It's queer he should go in the sand," commented the
prosecuting attorney, a sleek young man who had red
cheeks which were evidently made so by dissipation.
"He ought to know he couid be followed there."

"Murderers don't think of such things," said the sheriff.
"They're generally in a hurry. It's some little thing that
they forget that gets them caught. I wonder what size
those rubber boots were. We can measure the tracks.
Who's got a rule?"

The cellar door was now opened, and those who were
waiting entered. The jury with Rorus surrounded the
body and drew from it the sheet by which it had been
covered.

With a copy of the statutes in his hand Sparks
administered the oath to the six jurors.

"Here is what done it," said the justice, picking up the
broad-ax after he had performed the official duty just
mentioned.

"Terrible blow," ejaculated Dr. Rorus, "terrible.
Crashed through the cuticle, the cutis, the frontal bone,
the parietal bone, the arachnoid, the dura mater, the pia
mater and the cerebrum. Intelligence, in a moment,
in a second, in a half of a second, or less, for it was done
instantly, destroyed, stopped, or, more properly, used
up. Did you ever think what a slippery thing mind is.
Major? Intangible, incomprehensible. You can't get at
it. You want to put it under a microscope, but it isn't
there. You grab for it, but it gets away. Whenever
you put your hand on it, it slips out just like a greased
pig."

So eager were the spectators to view the proceedings of
the inquest that they seriously embarrassed the jurors in
their deliberations and crowded them almost upon the
body of Green. The annoyance at last aroused the displeasure
of Sparks, who ordered two constables to clear a
larger place for the accommodation of the court. The retreat
was slow, like all forced backward movements of a
crowd. Those who were behind had no inclination to
move farther away from the object of interest, and those
who were in front were by them prevented from doing so.
Finally motion was imparted to the sluggish mass, which,
reaching beyond the door, settled back with the rearward
part resisting the retrogression. One of the lookers-on, who
struggled most obstinately against yielding his position,
was crowded toward the door; his heels struck the barrel
which served as a curb, and he was precipitated to a sitting
posture. Unfortunately for him he was a lean man,
so very lean, that, doubled up as he was, he shot inside of
the barrel, where, helpless and clamorous, he remained
with his chin barely above water and the soles of his feet
and the top of his head forming equally elevated slopes.
The excited throng pressed about him and drove him farther
into the well, but he was finally rescued, and the
investigation proceeded.

When the dead body had been critically examined, it
was wrapped in the sheet and removed to the ground
floor. Sparks led the way to the room directly above the
cellar, where the testimony was to be taken.

"Gentlemen," said Sparks, "we've met to-day to do our
duty, and that's what everybody orto be willin' to do.
One of our neighbors has been slayed almost before our
eyes. Now we want to find out who done it, and what he
done it for. Folks'll expect it of us, consequently that's
what we orto do."

Sparks now proceeded to the examination of witnesses.
Dr. Rorus gave straggling testimony relating to the organs
affected by the wound, to the time and to the immediate
cause of death. It was to no purpose that the sheriff and
the prosecuting attorney bade him confine his attention to
necessary facts.

Ratke was the next witness to be called. The preceding
day he had paid Green fourteen thousand five hundred
forty-two dollars and forty-two cents. All except the
forty-two cents was in paper. He had given paper because
it was the cheaper currency and it was what he had
borrowed. After he had paid him, Green drove toward
home, and that was the last time he had seen him alive.
When asked by the prosecuting attorney whether there
had been any ill-feeling between him and the deceased, he
admitted that there had been. When questioned as to its
nature, he said substantially that, as his neighbor was dead,
he could not with propriety explain their trouble. He
was liable to prejudice. The account which he would furnish
might be biased. A counter-statement from the other
party, therefore, would be necessary to give the jury a
correct idea of the circumstances. That statement it was
impossible to obtain. He, consequently, must be silent
respecting their relations. He could only inform them
that, however intense or unjust his animosity, it never would
have prompted him to injure in person, reputation or
finance the victim of the recent tragedy.

Mrs, Green was nearly overcome by grief, and the jury
allowed her to tell her story without being subjected to
many questions. She was quite deaf. She had been
awakened by her husband in the night. Green said
William Henry Harrison wanted him to come upstairs,
and she, herself, could hear the calls, though she could not
understand them. From her husband she learned their
import. William Henry Harrison said that he was sick.
Then he said that he was very sick and that he was going
to die. Next he said that he was going to have a fit and that
he would break the house. He broke the bed, knocked
out some window lights and jarred loose a lot of plaster.
Green at last went up to see what was the matter. She
waited for him a long time, but he did not come. After
a while she became alarmed and ascended to the chamber.
William Henry Harrison acted strangely. She asked him
where her husband was, but he returned an answer so low
that she could not hear him. She thought it was a whisper.
She insisted that he should speak, and he was still
obstinate. She tried to pull him from bed, but she
was not strong enough. Then she endeavored to haul the
clothes from him. At that he resisted and even acted
mad. She never saw him so violent before. Whenever
she moved the quilt which was over him, he carefully
replaced it again. He would fold it and put it over his legs,
and she saw him arrange it so that a wrinkle would run
across the center. As she continued her attempts to
arouse him, he grew frantic, and she was afraid longer to
stay by him. After hunting through the house she went
down cellar and found her husband. She could not tell
what she did during the next few minutes, but she was
sure she did not touch the body. When she recovered
from the shock sufficiently to think and act, she proceeded
to Mr. Holmes's house and awakened him. He, with
another neighbor whom he aroused, came home with her,
and watched in the cellar until morning.

"The next witness I shall perceed to call," said the
justice, "is William Henry Harrison Hibbard."

Gently pushed forward by several men, William Henry
Harrison took the chair.

Sparks gravely looked down at the law-book and
repeated these words: "William Henry Harrison Hibbard,
you do solemnly swear that the evidence you shall give to
this inquest concernin' the death of the person here
lyin' dead shall be the truth, the whole truth and nothin'
but the truth."

The half-wit stared stupidly at the justice, but made no
reply.

"The court is waitin'," observed Sparks. "We want
you to speak up."

Still the witness did not answer.

"We're in a hurry," said Sparks. "Do you swear it,
I say?"

"No," replied William Henry Harrison.

"What!" ejaculated Sparks, "you won't tell us? Now
I ask you again. Do you swear to tell the truth?"

"No," said William Henry Harrison, "I no swear.
Wicked, awful."

"We do not want you to swear or say anything bad,"
said the major. "We want to know if you will tell the
truth."

"Yes," was the response. "I no lie."

"Now, William Henry Harrison Hibbard," Sparks
began, "we want you to tell us somethin' about the
murder. Some think you know more about it than you
care to tell. They kind o' think you know who it was
that hit 'im."

William Henry Harrison's terror of the preceding night
was revived. He remembered the dark-lantern, the hideous
face which had peered into his, the great shadow
which had been thrown on the ceiling and the threats
which the ferocious intruder had uttered. He drew down
his head and shoulders and cast an uneasy glance toward
the door which led to the cellar.

"I want to ask you, William Henry Harrison," said
Sparks, "what did you do as you did for? What did you
want to call Mr. Green up there for when you knowed
somebody was a-waitin' to kill 'im? There was nothin'
fair about that. It wa'n't as you'd like to be done by.
Answer me now. What did you want to do it for?"

Poor William Henry Harrison, incapable of defense,
could only stare in mute appeal.

"If you don't answer me," threatened Sparks, "I shall
take legal perceedin's agin you. What did you want to
do it for?"

"I dono," responded the half-wit.

"Yes, you do know, too," persisted Sparks. "If you
called him up there, you know what you called him for,
You orto be ashamed o' yourself, a-doin' like that. There
he'd fed you an' kept you an' give you your clothes, an'
you had to up an' play that mean trick on 'im,"

"Young man," said Dr. Rorus, in his most resonant
bass, "do you realize the position you are taking?"

The prosecuting attorney here objected to Rorus's
questioning the witness.

"Do you know," persisted the drunken doctor, ignoring
the objection, "that you are in insurrection against,
aye, assaulting the statutes of the Peninsular State?
For, when you stand in the way of justice, you are
assailing the whole. Do you think the people will stand
that? Why, my dear sir, you never heard the motto of Michigan,
did you? It is 'Tuebor'--I will defend her. And, when
the young men of Michigan say, 'I will defend her,' they
mean it. They are ready to fight for her liberty and her
rights and her civilization. At the first menace they would
crowd up by the dozens and the hundreds and the thousands
and the millions. Now answer instantly."

The frightened witness slid to the side of his chair as
far from his interlocutor as he could get without leaving
or moving his seat. The prosecuting attorney again
protested that Rorus had no right to question the witness.

"Rules are for use, sir," said the doctor--"for use when
they're needed. We don't need that rule now. Young
man," he continued, addressing William Henry Harrison,
"you are liable to be arrested for conspiracy, to be put
in Jackson inside of stone walls, and have men ready to
shoot you if you try to run away. I will have a man
come for you now. Your honor, send a constable for
him."

"Rorus," interrupted the major, "you are drunk or you
are a fool. Your honor, if you will allow me to question
the witness, I think I can extract the information you
want. Now, William Henry Harrison," he said, turning
to the half-wit, "I will let none of them hurt you. I will
keep them off. You like tobacco, don't you?"

"No like now. No like nothin' now."

"But you will like it when we go away," said Ratke
kindly, "Jim, let me lake your tobacco box."

The young fellow who at the hunt after the horse
thieves had been conspicuous in the white hat handed
Ratke his tobacco box. William Henry Harrison, whose
scanty supply of tobacco had been partly stolen from
Green and partly bought by pennies which he had
accumulated, took the box and hesitated.

"You had better take it," said Ratke. "You may not
have another chance to get tobacco."

Thus urged, the half-wit transferred the tobacco to his
pocket.

"If you will answer a few questions," said the major,
"you can leave us and be away from these men. Then,
when I go to Break o'Day, I will buy you a pound of
tobacco. Now, I would like to, know if any one came to
your room last night."

The allusion to the circumstances by which the half-wit
had been so frightened again made him incapable of
utterance. His terrified looks and shrinking posture
indicated that he would give no evidence.

"Oh, you aught not to be afraid," said Ratke, "I
won't let anybody touch you. What kind of looking man
was he?"

"He big. He awful."

"There," exclaimed Sparks, "now we've got a clue.
If you can git him to tell who he looks like. Major, it'll be
a big point."

"Holmes," said the major, "hand me your tobacco
box. Have a chew, William Henry Harrison. Did the
man have whiskers?"

"Yes," responded William Henry Harrison. "He
have whissers, just like Misser Sparks."

This unexpected reply drew the general attention to
the justice and brought a flush to the judicial countenance.

"Tell me what he did," said Ratke.

"No," said William Harrison. "He say he kill when I
tell."

"Let him come," said Ratke assuringly. "I will give
him the hardest thrashing he ever got. You don't think
he will hurt you when I am here, do you?"

"No, I 'fraid of no one when you here. He come when
you go 'way. Come when nobody here. Night. He
shoot, kill, hurt, make blood."

"How do you know he will hurt you?" asked the
major.
	s
"He say so. He come las' night. He pull my legs.
He say I call Misser Green. I say I no like call Misser
Green. He git mad. Then he say he hurt I no call
Misser Green. He shake me. I call Misser Green.
Misser Green git mad. Man he make me say I sick, I
have fit. I break things. Misser Green he git mad.
He come up. Man he lay quilt on my legs. He say I
move quilt he kill me. Man he scare Misser Green.
Misser Green he go with man. Miss Green she come up.
She pull quilt. I 'fraid man come. I pull. I 'fraid
now"

"That will do, William Henry Harrison," said the
major. "You have been a good witness. You must admit,
Rorus, that he has told a not improbable story. It is not
strange that he should be compelled to do as he did by
the assassin, who was certain that the course Which he
adopted would bring Mr. Green to the chamber. Besides,
William Henry Harrison is not capable of inventing
the account which he gave."

"We've heerd all the testimony we can git at," said
Sparks, "that is, so far as we know. Now, honorable
jury, I want you to decide this question. An', while
you're about it, git it right if you can. This lookin' a
thing over an' then gettin' it wrong after you've had the
fussin', I don't think much of."

The clerk, with the help of Dr. Rorus, prepared the
inquisition, to which the jury subscribed. The document
stated that "The said Josiah Green came to his death between
the hours of one and two o'clock, on the second
day of July, 187--, in the cellar of his own house, by means
of a broad-ax, in the hands of a person or of persons
unknown, and that the immediate cause of death was
cerebral hemorrhage inducing paralysis of the nerve
centers, asphyxia, cerevuesisms and coma."

Mrs. Green's neighbors eradicated the traces of the
murder from the cellar. The broad-ax they gave to
Sparks. Back of the barn they carried the plank, with its
discoloring stripe of dark red. They dipped dry the
well, the water of which was bloody and loathsome as that
of the Egyptian streams over which Aaron's rod was


