"I was afraid it would be so dark you wouldn't come,"
said the cattle-buyer. "You must have had a bad time
getting through the woods. You kept the business secret,
as I told you?"

"As nearly as I could," replied John. "I could never
have found the way from the description you gave me.
I inquired at a house after I started."

"Is that so?" asked Durgenson. "Where did you inquire?"

"At Wallace's," answered John. "I said nothing
about you. I merely asked the way to Mrs. Boyle's. I
hope it did no damage."

"Oh, no," said Durgenson. "Of course, when I go
into anything, I don't advertise it. But probably no one
will mistrust what you came for. I believe I didn't tell
you what I wanted of you."

"What business do you wish to hire me to do?" asked John.

"The stock business," answered Durgenson. "I want
you to drive and to buy cattle and horses, perhaps sheep."

"But I have had no experience," objected John. "You
would certainly lose if you had me use my poor judgment
in buying."

"Don't be too sure about that," returned Durgenson.
"It's in you, and I know it. I've had my eye on you for
quite a while. I can tell whether I want a man or not the
first time I see him. I care more about honesty than
experience. I had a cowboy to work for me once. He
would guess the weight of a steer almost to a pound
notch. But I wouldn't board that fellow for all he'd do.
He'd get drunk, and then he'd either pay so much that I
lost, or offer so little that the stockmen would get mad
and wouldn't have anything to do with us. Then I had
another hand that was steady and a good buyer, but he
was always smousing me. It's hard to find one that's
just right, mighty hard."

"I have a course of study which I am very anxious to
finish," said John. "I really ought not to give my
attention to new subjects now. But if you hire me, it
will be necessary. What wages do you propose to give?"

"Oh, as to that," Durgenson returned," I can't give
you as much at first as I give an experienced hand. I
wouldn't venture over fifty dollars a month and expenses
for the first three months. After that, if I kept you at
all, I could bid up to seventy-five or a hundred. I'd
want you to commence right off."

"I cannot do that," replied John. "I have hired to
Major Ratke for all summer."

"You are sure you told no one about coming here?"

"No one except Miss Wallace," John replied, "and
the boys at Ratke's did not know which way I came."

"Why I'm so careful," explained Durgenson, "Pease
and I have quite a rivalry. I get the start of him once
in a while, and he beats me when he can. Sometimes,
after I've got a plan ready, he drops on to it and gets
ahead of me. When I begin to hire men, he knows
something is up, and he gets wind of it some way. Now,
I'm satisfied there's money in a car-load of horses to put
in here, and I mean to get them before he does."

Glancing past the cattle-buyer, John saw an ugly shadow
on the wall. It was the head of a man with an abnor-
mally large nose and a savage, repulsive countenance.
The exaggerated shape was made by the rays of the lamp
falling on the face of young Boyle, who had finished his
insect butchery and was sitting still and silent by the
table. From each of his eyes was reflected a ball of light
something like^that which shines from the orb of an ex-
cited cat. John was momentarily impressed by the figure
on the wall and the sullen behavior of the young man,
who, he observed, looked at him often, but avoided
meeting his direct gaze.

"I want you to begin your training to-night, Wrengell,"
said Durgenson ; "I've got my horse out here tied to a
tree, and I want you to guess what he's worth."

"What," asked John, "practice an art before learning
the theory ? You said that you would give me a book,
so that I could get posted."

"So I will," assured the stockman. "But you ought
to take every opportunity to improve. If you can't afford
to spend the time, I'll give you ten dollars rather than
to have you unprepared when I'm ready to use you. You
will acquire judgment. You'll guess with him, won't yc
Alf ? "




158 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK C DA Y.

, "Yes," answered young Boyle.

"He's out there in the woods tied to a tree," explained
Durgenson. "The stable door is so narrow I couldn't
make him go through it. You must tell me what he is
best adapted for, running, trotting or pulling."

A bat flew in at a window and displeased with its new
quarters, circled about the room in desperate but unavail-
ing efforts to escape. Young Boyle rushed at it, struck
it down with a narrow piece of thin board and picking it up,
made sure of its death by crushing it between his fingers.

As he was tossing the lifeless creature through the
window, a woman entered the door which had admitted
John, She was about fifty years of age, was plainly
dressed, and, John thought, had the most benevolent face
he had ever seen. She appeared astonished at finding
so many occupants in the house, and looked from John to
Durgenson as if to ascertain the object or objects of their
visit.

"What are you here for?" growled young Boyle, with
an oath. "I thought you was goin * to stay to Blake's
all night,"

"Mrs. Blake is better," responded the woman meekly,
"Mrs, Sparks and Mrs, Holmes are both there, and they
said I might as well come home, I have been up two
nights in succession, and I can rest better here than
there."

"I'd have stayed till momin' an' got my breakfast," said
Boyle. "You've earned your board there, I guess,"

"This is Mr. Durgenson, I think," remarked the woman,
after a long survey of the cattle-buyer.

"That is my name," replied Durgenson, "but I doti't
remember where we ever got acquainted."

"I am Mrs, Boyle," said the woman, "We met at
Chicago after the death of Mr. and Mrs, Lehmann. Per-
haps you will remember that Mr. Boyle and I were their
nearest neighbors."

"Oh, yes," answered Durgenson, with a show of uneasi-
ness, "It was so long ago I wouldn't have recognized
you if you hadn't spoken about our being acquainted."

"And this young njaOf" ^^'"^ ^'"^- Boyle, "I have
never met him."



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA V. 159

"Excuse me," Durgenson apologized, "Fll introduce
you."

John wondered that so refined a lady should have so
brutal a son. It struck him that he was having a gener-
ous share of her attention and that, courteous as she had
seemed, she was allowing her curiosity to master her
civility.

"That looks like a violin case," said Mrs. Boyle. "Do
you play, Mr. Wrengell ? "

"I have had some practice on that instrument," re-
plied John.

"I Vish you would play for us," said Mrs. Boyle, "I
like to hear music."

The lady's interest in John apparently increased as she
listened to the strains of the violin. Her eyes brightened ;
the kindly expression on her face was intensified to a de-
gree which reached regard and love.

"That is beautiful," she said, when John had finished
the air. "I have thought that the violin ought to be used
in church. There is truth in saying that the Devil ought
not to be allowed all the best music. I hope you don't
play for dances."

"No, ma*am," he replied. "That is, not for public
dances," he added, recollecting his performance in the
club-house.

"I am glad to hear that," said the lady. "You could
do so much good if you wished. Think how many you
could draw to the house of God, some that would not
come for anything only to hear good music. There is a
great responsibility resting on you, Mr. Wrengell. You
must use your talents rightly or they may be taken
away."

John felt at this gentle rebuke a sense of shame which
would not have been imparted by harsher censure.

"I presume you play on other instruments," continued
Mrs. Boyle. "A good organ player can make himself
very useful. The organ is used so much for sacred
music."

A loud squalling, as of some cats about to engage in
desperate battle, arose outside the cottage. On hearing
the sound Boyle sprang up and went hurriedly to a bed-






l6o THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA V,

room where he rummaged noisily about, but he soon reap-
peared, bearing a double-barreled shotgun.
i "What are you going to shoot, Alfred?" inquired

Mrs. Boyle.

"Fm a-goin' to shoot them cats," returned the young
fellow, whom we, like Durgenson, will call Alf.

"Oh, don't do that," protested Mrs. Boyle. "It may
1)6 Mr. Lowry's Bob. You know how much they think
of him."

???

"Let 'em keep him to home, then," gruffly returned
Alf, passing out of the house. "There'll be a howlin '
out here all night. I won't lose my rest for no cat." ,

In a few minutes he returned, disappointed, from his
hunt. Resuming his chair by the table, he sat with his
forehead so traversed by wrinkles that its primarily nar-
row surface was much diminished and his eyebrows al-
most met his hair. After a short occupation of this
seat, he arose and again went to the bedroom. When he
emerged, he walked straight to the outside door, looking
neither to the right nor to the left.

"Are you going away, Alfred ?" asked Mrs. Boyle,
with an anxiety which she could not suppress.

** It's none o ' your bisness where I'm goin', "he re-
plied, turning furiously about, the wrinkles on his brow
changed in direction from horizontal to perpendicular,
"I'm of age, I thank you."

"Now, Wrengell," said Durgenson when Alf's foot-
steps were no longer audible to them, "we'd like to hear
another tune. At least, I would."

John complied with Durgenson's request and putting
his violin in its case, announced his intention to leave.

"Oh, what's the use of being in a hurry?" said the
cattle-buyer. . "You've got all night to go home in. I'll
light you through the woods with a lantern."

"Will you do an errand for me ?" asked Mrs. Boyle.

"Certainly," answered John. "What do you wish ? "

"Take a letter to Mrs. Grippin if you will. I will see
if I can find it."

Mrs. Boyle lighted a lamp, proceeded to the bedroom
and closed the door. Presently she came out with two
envelopes in her hand.



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA K



i6i



"I am sorry to keep you waiting," she said, handing John
an envelope. "I haven't my glasses on. Perhaps you
can tell which one of these is directed to Mrs. Grippin."

When she had finished speaking, Mrs. Boyle stood be-
tween John and Durgenson, close to the latter, so that the
view between the two men was almost wholly obstructed.
The first envelope which John scanned was addressed to
Mrs. Cyrus Boyle, Detroit, Mich. The second bore the
following inscription : "Do not go back the way you
came. Go back of the house and you will find a road
that you must follow. Look out for Durgenson and my
son. Remember."

John could hardly repress a start of surprise as he read
this warning, which made a strong and instantaneous im-
pression. Neither in the appearance of Mrs. Boyle nor in
that of Durgenson was there any confirmation of the mes-
sage. Her countenance was still untroubled, and he was
as smiling and good-natured as ever.

"I'll go with you," said Durgenson. "We'll want a
lantern. We can't get through without."

"Thank you," returned Johiv, "I shall not need your
help."

"Now don't forget my errand," said Mrs. Boyle. "My
son is careless once in a while. You must remember."

"If you'll get a lantern, Mrs. Boyle," said Durgenson,
"I'll go to the fields with him. He'll never find the way
out alone."

"No," said John, in a positive tone, "I do not need any
company, nor am I anxious to have a lantern."

"I'd. like to speak to you a minute," remarked Durgen*
son, "just a minute."

"Come to Major Ratke's, then," John returned, as he
quickly left the room.



II



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK DAY.



CHAPTER XVII.

WHAT HAPPENED IN THE SWAMP,

The night was lighter than it had been when John ar-
rived at Mrs. Boyle's. The curtain which shrouded the
sky was torn in a few places, and through the rents here
and there was gleaming a star.

John ran across the cleared space back of the house,
meeting but one obstacle, a stump, which threw him and
slightly bruised his leg. The interval between the house
and the woods, or more properly the brush, was short ;
and it was not long before he was in the woods to which
Mrs, Boyle had alluded. It had formerly been a wagon
track, but of late it had been so seldom used by teams
that one side of it was grown over with weeds, although
the other was beaten down by foot passengers. Its width
aided him in keeping it, and, moreover, the near bushes
by their sharp briars notified him whenever he encroached
on their territory.

He began to feel that his alarm in the house was un-
necessary and that he had acted rudely toward Durgen-
son, who certainly had given him no cause for such treat-
ment. His refusal of guidance through the woods seemed
to him every moment more rude and uncalled for. And
yet he could account for Mrs. Boyle's warning only by
one of two suppositions, that she had some reason for her
extraordinary caution or that she was insane. After she
had handed htm the envelope, she had disarmed the sus-
picion of the cattle-buyer by calmness and feigned in-
difference, such as might be used by a sly lunatic who was
planning to deceive his keeper. He resolved that at the
next opportunity he would amply apologize to Durgenson,
(hough he couJd not imagine ^ way in which he might ex-
plain his uncivjj departure.

f he road ended at [ue ^^S^ oi a field, beyond which



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y. 163

was some large timber, which was faintly visible. The in-
tervening ground had been recently plowed by some un-
enterprising farmer who was late in the preparation of his
summer fallow. Much of it lay up in large masses, which
fell in pieces when it was trodden upon, for the dry
weather had not baked it as it had the more easily in-
fluenced clay. John debated whether he would follow the
edge of the improvement or enter the woods, but he soon
adopted the latter course.

A short, distance from the field was a steep descent lead-
ing to the swamp, which here, at the end of a considerable
stretch to the east, turned abruptly southward. He was
at the bottom of the hill, preparing to return to the
higher ground, when he heard in the bushes at his right a
crashing, which, had he been in an eastern tropical jungle,
he might have imagined to be made by a hippopotamus or
an elephant. The crashing, together with its supplement,
the sound of heavy and frequent blows from a cudgel, re-
ceded farther to the interior of the swamp. The day and
the night of unusual circumstances had fortified John
against surprises, yet they had not so far stripped him of
curiosity as to keep him from wishing to unravel the mys-
tery. Leaving his violin by a tree which he thought he
could readily find, he followed the retreating noise, which,
though varying in volume, was continuous and was an ex-
cellent safeguard against his being discovered by those
who made it. It occurred to him that in thus dogging the
footsteps of others, when he could assign no good reason
for so doing, he was playing an unworthy part; but, as
many a comparatively upright man had done before him,
he subordinated his strictest sense of honor to the fulfill-
ment of his desire. He soon came near enough to the dis-
turbance to ascertain that two men were conducting a
horse through the swamp, one leading him by a halter,
the other occasionally belaboring him with a tamarack

"Touch him up," said Wallace, who held the halter-
strap and a lantern. "We won't get out of here till morn-
ing unless we're careful."

"I'll warm his ole sides," responded Ab. "Git along
here with you."



l64 THE CHFONICLES OF BREAK O' BAY.

"You want to look out, Ab," warned the father, "Vou
don't know who's prowling around."

"Oh, you're always a worryin', dad," returned Ab,
"I'm a-talkin' low. There ain't anybody goin' to poke
around here at one o'clock for fun."

"Yes, the first thing we know we'll get gobbled," com-
plained Wallace. "There'll be a pile of profit in that,
I've agood notion to say I'll quit this kind of work. You
can't make much of a living at it. There, I've got my
foot in one of them devilish holes again ! I'm wet clear
up to my hips. I don't expect anything but what I'll be
sick to-morrow with the rheumatism,"

"Oh, this'll only just limber you up, dad," consoled Ab.
"You ain't dead yet. You can grunt."

"I wish you wouldn't be so cunning," returned Wallace,
with a whine. "It don't feel funny to be all crippled up.
You know how I was last winter and you hadn't ought to
laugh."

"Why don't you laugh, too } That's what 'ud do you
good. Come, chirk up, dad. Less hear how 'twould
sound for you to talk without that whine."

"If you felt like I do, you wouldn't be so chipper," said
Wallace.

They had now reached a lower and thinner growth of
bushes, where John could not follow them so closely as he
had done without incurring a strong risk of detection.
For a time, therefore, their conversation was unintelligible
to him. As they entered the tamaracks, he quickened his
pace and was presently at no great distance from them.

This was several miles below the retreat which had
been fitted by Montcalm, and the use of which had been
abandoned on account of the possibility that it had been
discovered during the great hunt and that it would be
secretly watched,

"I wish we had a market for these horses, dad," said
Ab, "We'd make something then."

"I'm a-going to have a bigger share of 'em than I git
now," said Wallace, "or I won't work."

"That's what you've said before," replied Ab, "but
you keep right on."

"WelJ, there's no use of it," said Wallace. "I can do



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK 0" DA Y. 165

such business just as well as Montcalm can. He non't
fool me much longer. I'll make him an olfer ; and then,
if he don't come to my terms, we'll go it on our own

"Now you're showin' some spunk," returned Ab. "We
can sell horses as well as he can. He's one of the middle-
men you teil about. Takes all of the proRts and don't
labor himself."

"There wouldn't be any trouble about selling 'em," de-
clared Wallace. "When you get. the start of me on a
horse dicker, you've got to be up in the morning, I ain't
a bit afraid but what I could show Trace Montcalm a
trick or two,"

"Who do you suppose the boss is that he's telHn' so
much about?" asked Ab,

"I don't believe there is any," said Wallace. "That's
one of his lies. He thought if he said that, he could grind
our faces under a kind of a monopoly. I'll let him know
what I think about it, too. I ain't dependent on him."

"Less have the whole benefit of this one ourselves,"
proposed Ab. "We're sharp enough for that. We can
sell him and not be caught. We can do anything Mont-
calm can."

"We'll see," said Wallace. "Hold the horse while I
pull up these few trees in front. I wish Whipple knew
how to break a colt. This one won't half lead."

Ab had started for the purpose of taking the halter-
strap, when the animal, jerking away from the elder
Wallace, plunged among the trees, which at this place
were not unusually thick, and circling about a large fallen
tamarack, went toward the hard land in a course parallel
with the road. Ab raced hurriedly back along the cleared
strip, turning his head to one side, although his attempts
to see the beast which he wished to intercept were neces-
sarily unavailing. So intent was he on securing his lost
plunder and so little light came through the tops of the
trees, that without warning he came full against John, who
was in the act of rising from his crouching position.
Quickly gathering himself, he rushed among the tamaracks
exclaiming, "Run, dad, run ! "

The lantern which Wallace carried was immediately ex-



l66 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA ???.

tinguished. The sounds of three bodies, one at the left
and two at the right, were heard moving through the
swamp. John endeavored to follow one of the objects at
the right. He had no hope or intention of capturing the
Wallaces, who at such a place and at such an hour would
prove inconvenient prisoners to one man unsupported.
It was, he thought, advisable for him to secure the colt,
restore him to his owner, and testify to what he had seen
and heard. Groping carefully and keeping his hands be-
fore his (ace were necessarj' precautions for protection
against the limbs, some of which were dry, pointed, and
hard. The horse was moving from him, but its retreat
was slower than his advance. It was proceeding toward
an opening in the tamaracks, through which could be seen
patches of nearly cloudless sky.

This opening was on each side of the creek which ran
lengthwise of the swamp. On the bank of the stream the
colt stood, undecided as to which direction he should
pursue. When John went toward him, he did not run
away, but turning, remained with his heels suggestively
presented. The man again made a circuit, and again the
horse anticipated his design and gave a quiet but signifi-
cant challenge, John persevered long in his endeavors,
but at last, seeing their useiessness, he decided to retrace
his way, giving no further notice to the colt. Accordingly,
he set out to regain the road which he had quitted ; but
he had no sooner undertaken this task than he was fol-
lowed by the colt, which seemed bent on keeping neither
afar off nor in close proximity. Near a tall stub which
loomed above the smaller trees, he stopped to ascer-
tain his location and the course which it was best
for him to follow. He was in a stunted, rather
thin growth of the tamaracks. About him were trunks,
the diameters of which were out of proportion to their
heights, and limbs which reached far outward as if vainly
trying to extend themselves over the entire surface of the
ground. Farther on were the tops of the smaller trees
which were too dense for penetration by the vision of one
who was not in their midst. After he had calculated upon
his probable distance from the place which he wished to
reach, he selected a conspicuous broken tree-top as a land-



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK o'Day. 167

mark and advanced toward it. From this he was obliged
to procee'd unaided by a visible goal, for the trees were
so nearly of a height and so close together that a distance
of a few feet sufficed to make them indistinguishable. He
thought the way to the road very long and very tedious.
Now and then he halted to make observations, but as
they were invariably limited to thirty square rods of
swamp and an indefinite expanse of sky, they were produc-
tive of no good. It was with a feeling of relief that he saw
the perceptible stretch of the now well-lighted heavens
move downward and expand as the tamaracks diminished
in stature. But his joy was dissipated when he found that
he had traversed a circle and returned to the broken tree
which he had left a few minutes before. Once more he
set out, and once more, making the circuit, came back to
the familiar stub. He now concluded that by another
direction he would try to reach the upland. His next at-
tempt was to return to the creek, and this he accomplished.
It was now morning. He wandered up and down the
creek, but he was unable to find a ford. In desperation
he retreated a few paces from the stream and running up
to the edge, jumped with all his might.

The creek was so wide that a trained athlete might not
easily have cleared it at a leap ; and he landed, there-
fore, in the muddy bottom, where he sank above his waist.
Luckily for him, he struck within reach of some bushes,
which 'afforded so good a hold that by hard pulling he
was able to extricate himself. Striking out from this
point, he met with the same success which had attended
his efforts on the opposite side.

But by following the creek, he reasoned, in the course
of a mile or two he would arrive at a public highway.
With this end in view he proceeded down the left bank.
A walk of thirty rods brought him to a bridge which was
curiously constructed of poles. Across it teams and
wagons had been driven, and from the right bank branched
two roads. Passing over the creek, he took the left track,
which turned and led him back to the bridge. He re-
. crossed it, satisfied that he was in a fair way to reach the
improvements. The colt, which had awaited him on the
right bank, and had followed him along the circuitous road



i68 THE CHRONICLES OF BliEAK 0' DA V.

approached the edge, snorted, stepped on the poles care-
fully at first, and then finished the risky passage with a
sudden rush. The road wound among the trees, its un-
dulations indicating the way which had been most easy
to clear, it brought John to some scattered bushes bor-
dering a sandy slope where blossomed buckwheat was
growing. He gained the eminence and beheld the wel-
come signs of civilization -- houses, farms, orchards and
cultivated fields. The sun was well up, and the hour for
beginning farm labor had arrived. Between him and the
nearest house young cattle and milch cows were grazing.
Near the road and far to the right a boy was riding a
wheel cultivator. The creak of a plow wheel came
from the opposite side of an untrimmed hedge at
the left. The hedge gave place to a board fence about
midway in the line of division whicli separated the two
fields. As John climbed the fence, the plow approached,
drawn by two bay horses, one of which was wind-broken.
The plowman had a sunburned, rather disagreeable coun-
tenance. He wore an old felt hat which was tucked
under at the sides, so that it stuck out in peaks before
and behind.

"Good-morning," said John.

"Good-morning, sir," responded the plowman.

"Can you tell me where I am?" asked John.

"I guess I can," answered the plowman. "Looks to
me as if you was in my field."

"I got lost in the swamp," said John, "and I have no
idea where I am. Am I still in Jefferson Township?"

"No," replied the man, "you ain't in that county.
You're in Washtenaw, now, township of Warren."

"I wish to go to Break o'Day," said John. "Will you
please direct me so that I can find the way ? "

"Go to the road and make north. By and by you'll
come to the forks. One comes here and one goes to
Sharptown. Vou want to take the handle and that leads
to Break o'Day. Helloa, is that your horse .' "

The exclamation was caused by the colt, which had
trotted to the fence and was whinnying to the team.

"No," answered John, "he followed me from the
awamp."



THE CHRONICLES QE BREAK ff DAY. 169

"Followed you from the swamp!" echoed the plow-
man. "That's funny that he should be in there."

"Yes," said John, thinking it best to impart his newly
gained information first to the authorities and afterward
to the owner of the horse, "I found him there, and he
seemed as anxious to get out as I."

"Did you catch him?"

"No, I did not."
??? "I'm going to try it now," said the man, climbing the
fence. "Oh, you bloody brute!" he ejaculated, quickly
retreating, as the colt whirled and stood with his heels
toward him.

"Can I get something to eat at your house?" inquired

"Well, now, I don't know. It's just as the woman
says about that. You can go up and ask her."

In twenty minutes John was leaving the house with his
hunger appeased. It was with self-congratulations on his
escape from the swamp, that, avoiding the graveled walk
which lay between circular beds of flowers, he passed
through the large gate and took long, steady strides toward
Break o'Day.



THE CJJJtONJCL???S OF BJtEAK Cf DA Y.



CHAPTER XVIII.

BREAK o'Day.

Break o'Day is one of the oldest villages in Jackson
County. It had its store and its school-house before the
first building was erected in Sharptown or Oakville. The
derivation of its name has been the subject of many in-
quiries, which have been answered by local antiquarians.
The founders of the hamlet, like the majority of Michigan
pioneers, came from New York. Four families built
their houses neat together, that they might enjoy the
society of neighbors. Others followed from the Empire
State, and the neighborhood became thinly settled. They
had dwelt on the eastern hills, where, unobstructed, a view
extended for miles. They were now in the midst of woods,
where they could view no distant object unless it were
above the timber. Month after month they lived in this
manner, and daily the complaints grew louder. The
women, who had been accustomed to habits of thrift,
longed to see the sun rise once more. They declared it
was nothing but laziness which allowed tbem to be penned
up in that fashion, that if they were men, they would chop
out at least one place wide enough to give them a sight
through the forest. Urged on by their wives, the men
made a bee and hewed to the eastward a road through
which the earliest beams of the daily luminary might shine.
The next morning the entire population of the locality
gathered to witness the blaze of light which slowly
appeared above the long stretch of stumps. Shouts re-
sounded, guns were fired, a feast was spread, and the
place was promptly named Break o'Day.

The village never grew to the dimensions which were
anticipated for it by its first builders. Twenty years ago
its ippearance was substantially as it is to-day. It was
built on five corners from which ran roads, one to each



US-









_<^



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK o'Day. 173

the coldest of the whole), they nipped at his feet. But

did they hurt him ? No, sir."

"Doctor," protested the waiting customer, "my wife is
awful sick."

"I'll wait on you in just a minute," said the physi-

"Who would make a good correspondent for this
place?" inquired the Oakville agent, wishing to gain in-
formation before Rorus recommenced his harangue,

"Well," answered the doctor, "there's Ned Sturgis
over in the post-office. He's a mighty smart fellow.
Posted right up to the handle. You couldn't do any better
than to get him. Then, there's my clerk, Fred Loomis,
he's a bright one. Smart as steel. You never noticed
him, did you ? He'd pick up everything there was going.
Quick-witted, you know. Catches on to anything before
other folks have a glimpse of it. I wouldn't wonder if
he's the best one you'll run across, Ned Sturgis is good.
I sha'n't say which is the best. My clerk, though, he is
A number one. You don't know what the boy is til! you
are acquainted with him. Now, I sha'n't say which is the
best. But, of the two, of the two, my clerk's a le-ede --
le-etie -- I sha'n't draw any distinction."

"Doctor," said the impatient man, "If you can't wait
on me, I'm going over to Sullivan's. I know I can get it

"Yes, immediately," replied the doctor. "You are sure
your wife is sick ? "

"I should think so. She like to have died this morn-
ing,"

"I have to be particular," said Rorus ; "I can't sell only
for medicinal purposes."

"Sullivan ain't so particular," said the customer.
"I can go there any time an' get all the whisky I

"That is a disgrace to Break o'Day," commented the
doctor. "That reproach to society, that den of iniquity,
that abominable hole, should be closed up. To whom are
they selling ? To the merchant, to the farmer, to the
clerk, to the business man, to the mechanic, to the laborer,
to the agriculturist, to-- lots of 'em. And yet, Michigan,



174 ^-^^ CimOMCLES OF BREAK C DAY.

mind you, no common State, but the Wolverine State, has
enacted a law that no intoxicating beverage shall be sold
except for medicinil purposes."

"Say, I'd like to see you a minute," remarked a man,
coming close to the physician.

"That you can," replied the doctor. "Right this
way."

"I've got the ague," said the man in a low tone, when
they had gone to the back of the store, "and I want some-
thing to break it up. I'd like to get some quinine and
whisky."

"Good idea," assented Rorus. "Grand thing for ague,
this quinquinia. I have it pure, too. I'll put them up
separately and let you mix them, eh .' "

The next event was the arrival of Wingscheut with his
shambling limp.

"Helloa, Wingscheut," was the salutation of Jimmy
Martin. "Have you been hunting horse-thieves or bears
lately.' Set down and give us a story,"

"No," sturdily replied the German, "I'fe cot to see te
toctor."

"Why," inquired Martin, "be you sick ? "

"No," answered Wingscheut, "unt I ton't vant to pe
sick, Tat's te reason I see te toctor. I vass pit~vith a
massauker 'unt I must have some visky."

"I want to speak a word with you," said a youth of
not more than twenty, after Wingscheut had obtained
his liquor.

"Come this way," said the doctor, going immediately
to his consultation room.

"I'm at work on a marsh where there's lots of rattle-
snakes," said the youth. "I'm afraid I'll be bit and may-
be not get help till it's too late. I wish you'd let me
have a pint of whisky."

"Can't do that," returned Rorus. "Can't do it pos-
sibly. It's against the law."

"I know it," pleaded the youth, "but maybe I'll die
if you don't. You let the rest have it. I do my trading
here, that is, everything' yo" keep. I'll have to go some-
where else if you can't accommodate me a litde."
"Human life," said ^^^ doctor, "must be preserved.



176 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

quarreled with Ratke over the proposed punishment of
the horse-thieves. "He'd be made short work of. The
hull country's worked up, and they'd string a man, too,
quick. What are you goin' to do about'catchin' your colt ? "

"I don't knowwhat to do," replied Whipple. "I thought,
though, that I'd go around and inquire and have my
neighbors do the same. They've gone now from around
my way. I'll go over to my brother-in-law's Bill Briggses,
and he'll turn out. Maybe by going far enough some of
us can hear where he's gone to."

The general attention was directed to a quarrel between
Jimmy Martin and the youth who had used so much per-
suasion to obtain the bottle of whisky. Martin had
stepped on the toes of the youth, whose name was Blake.
Blake complained of the act and was told that he was a
liar. He demanded an apology, which Martin refused
to give. Thereupon he threw off hia coat and vest,
rolled up his shirt-sleeves, unbuttoned and turned down
his shirt-collar and advanced in fighting attitude toward
Martin, who made no preparation for the attack.

Dr. Rorus passed around the large round stove to
separate the disputants. Grabbing each by the collar,
he exclaimed, "What ! Gen'lemen ! Quarreling in a
time of public danger, when the welfare and the safety of
the community is at stake ! Quarreling when our prop-
erty and our rights and our sacred honor are at stake !
for it's a question of honor, gen'lemen. You'll all say
it's dishonorable to steal horses, won't you? Then it's
dishonorable to let 'em be stole. Do you know what
town you're in ? Break o'Day, and Break o'Day has
the fires of patriotism. You should be ready to leave off
and lay aside and forget, you know, your little feuds and
animosities. Would George Washington have stopped
for a little fuss at Yorktown ? Would Joseph Warren
have paused for a racket, just a common blow up, I mean,
on the sacred soil of Bunker Hill ? Do you suppose, my
dear sir, that Mad Anthony Wayne would have stopped
charging up Stony Point because some one stepped on
his toe .???* Others may wrangle in a time of public calam-
ity, bur," he conducfed *'^ * leonine roar, "1. J. H.
Rorus, never, no, never-"



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O* DA V. 179



CHAPTER XIX.

THE VILLAGE HAS A SENSATION.

The rain had quite dried from the withered grass in the
road when Wrengell left the residence of Briggs. Some
men in a meadow at the right were stirring hay, which
would soon be fit to haul. In a field belonging to a farm
adjoining, a reaper was doing the first work in harvest
which John had seen that year.

It was not until Wrengell entered Break o'Day that he
bethought himself of his rough exterior. Had he consid-
ered in time, he would have gone through the fields, thus
avoiding the village, but it was now too late to do so. Sev-
eral loungers on the veranda of the hotel stared at him, and
one of them put down his paper and spoke to the landlord
about the mud-besmeared passer-by. John met Manie's
friend. Miss Holmes, as she was coming from Birch &
Bigney's store. She bowed pleasantly, but she was, he
fancied, ashamed of their acquaintance.

Wrengell was annoyed by the scrutiny of some men who
were peering from a yellow building which bore the sign,
I. J. H. Rorus. Their curiosity, which bordered on imper-
tinence, was indicated by earnest gestures and one or two
outstretched fingers which pointed directly toward him.
Used, as he had been, to snubs, he was not accustomed to
such insolent demonstrations ; and he returned glances
of defiance to the group at the door of the drug-store.
His fearless demeanor prevented for a brief season the
aggressive movement which was intended. The men
stood parleying on the steps, some rhetorical, some argu-
mentative, others fiercely denunciatory, each heedless of
all opinions save his own, none succeeding in making him-
self well understood.


