f departure, ** I guess I'm as respectable as the Wrengells.

There never was a decent one amongst you. I've heard
all about your tribe, you son of a thief. Mrs. Durgen-
son'll have you out of here in a week."

"Durgenson has avoided me for several days," said
John to Mrs. Baldwin. " I must see him and put a stop
to these annoyances. I would rather talk to him than to
the women. They always get the advantage of me."

As he was passivg the library in pursuance of his inten-

tion, he hearcj ^/-^ps inside. Peering in, he saw Mrs.

Durgenson staj^^t C on a chair in the act of tearing off

the scraps ^^Iql^^^^II^xA had pasted on the walls. These



!



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA K 323

clippings, which were very valuable to political and bio-
graphical students, he prized especially because they had
been arranged by his grandfather's hand. Such a dese-
cration of his venerated ancestors memory filled John
with indignation, and he was quick to show his dis-
pleasure.

"Mrs. Durgenson," he said, " I cannot allow that paper
to be torn off. It was pasted there by my grandfather,
and there it must stay, at least until the court decides
against my claim."

"Why, this is my house," said Mrs. Durgenson, begin-
ning to cry. " It's a pity if I can't do what I want to in
my own house." As she spoke she tore from the wall a
strip of paper, w^hich fell to the floor.

"You must leave this room immediately," said John.

** You'll get yourself into trouble," said the angry
woman, sobbing violently. " There'll be somebody after
you. I'll tell Durgenson of this, and he'll fight you. He
can do it."

"Tell him to come now," said John. " I will wait here
in the library for him."

"Oh, Durgenson," wailed the wife, as she came into
the presence of her husband, "I've been insulted in my
own house."

"Who's been insulting you t " asked Durgenson.

"It's that low-bred Wrengell," replied Mrs. Durgen-
son between her sobs. "The library looks awful with
those dirty papers on. I wanted to tear 'em off and fix
it decent. He -- he wouldn't let me. Oh, Durgenson
will you let the wife of your bosom be insulted in her own
house ? "

"Now, wife of my bosom," said Durgenson, with a
smile, "you get insulted very easy. In the first place,
you hadn't ought to have been in there tearing off the
paper, and in the next place, when he told you to go, you
ought to have gone without a word."

"I never thought that of you, Durgenson," whimpered
the wife. " You take up sides with him."

"Pshaw, now," said Durgenson, " if he had really in-
sulted you, I would whip that paper off the wall with him.
But, if I should pound him without any cause, it would



324 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

hurt our claim to th^ estate. Just let me tell you, Maggie.
Let him work and have it his own way for a while. What
do we care if the paper stays on a week or two ? And I
wouldn't have the girl snake away any more quilts or truck
from their part of the house."

"I can't be so spiritless," said Mrs. Durgenson. "It
ain't natural for me. I can't bear to have that jail-bird
around. Only think of it, what a low descent I We know
the pedigree of the Wrengells."

"I'll admit all that," said Durgenson, lowering his voice,
"but come here, Maggie. This is confidential, you know.
It mustn't be lisped, even to the girl. We can get the
start of him better to have him think we're friendly. Be-
tween you and me, he's got strong testimony to back his
claim. No matter if it's false, it will count all the same
in law. There isn't any doubt in my mind but what he'll
get it."

"And we can't have Uncle George's property .' " asked
Mrs. Durgenson, again beginning to cry.

"Not unless we're lucky or mighty sharp," said Durgen-
son. " Don't cry your eyes out, Maggie. Something may
turn up for us yet. He may go out in a rain-storm and
catch his death of cold, or the cars may run over him, or
he may eat too many vegetables and get downed by the
colic."

"I don't just want him to die," said Mrs. Durgenson.

"No, nor I," said Durgenson, " but, if he does, we can't
help it. We didn't want your Uncie George to die. He
did, though, and we wouldn't have any objection to tak-
ing the property. Our chances are a good deal belter if
we can stay right here. So, you see, we better not quar-
rel with him, not stir him up to push his claim very fast."

"He said he wanted to see you in the library," said
Mrs. Durgenson.

"I'd better go, too," said Durgenson. " I'll smooth ,
matters over. And, Maggie, tell Jule not to quarrel any
more with that girl in the south part. She'll be scratching
her eyes out the next thing we hear."

"Durgenson, J dave been wishing to see you for a week,"
^as John's greeting, " For some reason you have avoided



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK 0' DA Y. 325

"Oh, no, not a bit of it," said the cattle-buyer, stroking
his weli-trimmed beard with what seemed the essence o???
good-nature, " What can I do for you ? "

"Keep your wife and your servant in your own part of
the house," said John, " They come to this part and take
everything they can find. I have endured it for a long
time, because I disliked to speak to them about the matter
and you have kept out of my way. I have stood it as
long as I will."

"I'm sorry about that," said Durgenson. " It must be
the girl. The women, you know, have got to sputter
around and quarrel anyway. We hadn't ought to mind
them. You and I can't afford to have a falling out just
because the women don't agree."

"That talk sounds very well," replied John, " It does
not, however, make up for the loss of household articles
which are necessities."

"What have you missed ? " inquired Durgenson.

"Too many things for enumeration," replied John.
"Never mind what has been taken. If the evil is stopped
now, I shall be satisfied."

"But I shan't be satisfied," said Durgenson. "Make
out a list of what is missing, and I will bring them back,
or pay you for them,"

"I will take no pay for them," said John, ashamed that
he had spoken harshly to a man who was so willing to
rectify a wrong which he did not perpetrate.

"Yes," said Durgenson, " that is no more than square.
Now, Wrengell, or Lehmann (excuse me, I didn't think),
why don't you lock up these rooms ? You know what
women folks are. It may bother me to keep them within
bounds,"

"The keys are missing," replied John. " We have not
seen them since last Tuesday."

"I wonder if that Jule has got them," remarked Durgen-
son. " I saw some keys hanging up in the sitting-room.
Stay here a minute till I look," He very shortly returned
with a bunch of keys,

"Those are the ones," said John. " Keep those which
belong to your part of the house."

"I don't care anything about them," said Durgenson.



326 THE CHRONICLES OF^ BREAK G* DA Y,

"I was thinking about your claim to-day. It looks plaus-
ible enough, so that it may make us a good deal of trouble.
I'hat Dabney would swear to a lie as quick as he*d yarn
it about his salves and dopes. What will you take for
your interest here, Lehmann?*'

^' I do not care to dispose of it," replied John. " I had
rather have my honorable lineage acknowledged than to
possess all the real estate in Lansing without the respect-
able luu age. If I sell out, it will look like a confession
that I am an impostor."

'' What will you give us for our interest?" asked Dur-
genson. "A lawsuit would be apt to eat a hole in what
Uncle George earned."

*' I will not give very much," answered John, "not
more than five thousand dollars."

'' That is pretty small," said Durgenson, '' considering
the amount of the property. Give me a little time to
think it over, Lehmann."

Durgenson, seemingly in the best of humor, went to his
sitting-room. Half an hour after their conversation J<)hn
was passing through the hall when he heard a strange
voice saying in the adjacent parlor, " There's no use of
being worried about this matter, Mrs. Durgenson. It's
my duty to take him with me and I shall have to. If I
could help it, I would."

'*Oh, Durgenson," wailed the wife, " you're going to
leave your Maggie ! Oh, Durgenson, dear, when will
you be back } "

"Before a great while," responded Durgenson cheer-
ingly. " I haven't hired anybody to steal horses. Some
thieves killed a man in Illinois when he tried to stop them
from taking his horse. I'm not responsible for it, and I
can prove it. Can I speak a minute with my wife.?"

"Talk away," said the officer, for the man was, indeed,
a minion of the law. " Go to that side of the room if you
want to, but I can't let you go out of my sight."

The reader, if he chooses, may peruse the whispered
consultation, which was unintelligible to the officer and
to John.

"Maggie," said Durgenson, " Lehmann has got us foul.
He'll have this estate as sure as we're standing here. He



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK 0' BAY. 327

has offered us five thousand to give up our claim. It isn't
much, but you had better take it,"

"We ought to see if we can't get something more," said
Mrs, Durgenson.

"No," said Durgenson ; " if we do, some disagreeable
things will be brought up in court. We will lose the five
thousand dollars and pay out besides. I did play sharp
with him when he was a kid, Maggie, and we don't want
it talked about much. Sign off your interest for what he

"I'll have to interrupt you," said the officer. "Come

"Hadn't you better stay to dinner?" asked Durgenson.
"We'll have it ready in a little while."

"No," said the officer, " I can't wait at all. It's nearly
time for the train. Get on your hat now."

"Oh, don't take him ! Don't take my Hiram ! " pleaded
Mrs. Durgenson, throwing her arms about her husband. " I

"Oh, yes, you can," said the officer, motioning Durgen-
son to go with him. " You'll flourish all right."

With many tears and apostrophic declarations of love
Mrs. Durgenson bade farewell to her husband, who, in
apparently good spirits, set out for Ciiicago to face the
charge which had been brought against him,

Mrs. Baldwin was rejoiced at Ihe removal of the great
danger which, she said, had threatened ihem. She was
not afraid of poison when Durgenson was in jail. Mrs.
Ehn^enson, accepting her husband's advice, signed away
her interest in the property for the five thousand dollars
which was offered her. At her departure she took away
large quantities' o??? household goods as souvenirs of her
Uncle George.

In a short time John was in undisputed possession of
the Mallard estate. He longed to hear specific news from
the Ratke neighborhood. The several letters which he
addressed to Manie were signed John and brought him no
answer. He did not reflect that his correspondent might
be ignorant or forgetful of the recent change ^" '"???^^ name.



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK C DAY,



CHAPTER XXXIV.

VERDURE RISING FROM THE ASHES,

The day following the frustrated attempt at suicide in
the blacksmith shop Ratke relapsed into his accustomed
reticence. He was too weak and lame for bodily labor
and too much dejected to talk. " The senility of age is
upon me," he said, when Manie had asked him to perfect
tiie churn, the invention of which he had contemplated
before the loss of his property.

It was not until the next morning that he regained any^
thing like the cheerfulness which had been once his habit-
ual mood. As he walked through the small enclosure
which had served the blacksmith as a garden, he saw a
maple tree, some of whose leaves the frosts of fall had
dyed with red, " In the midst of certain evils," he mused,
"the human family is like the leaves of that tree; the
more prominent ones are first touched by the frost of
misfortune. Phleet Takum, the Wallaces and my hired
men are all proof against what I have suffered." The
reflection, mournful as it was, consoled him greatly, for
it proved that his habit of philosophical thought, which
he had believed dead, had only slept. He remembered
the prospect of which Manie had spoken, that he and she
together couid pursue the studies which he loved. He
felt that his powers were returning to him, and that it
would be a delight once more to apply them where Nat-
ure had amplified their scope.

He went slowly back to the house. The open door
revealed the figure of a man who was sitting in a rocking-
chair.

"John," said the major, cordially greeting his former
hired man, "iioff did you come ? "
"I drove out yfi^^ '"J' t^^*^'" replied John.



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y. 3^9

"I thought you had foi^otten us since you met with
your good fortune," said the major.

"No," replied John, " I have thought of you every
day, Major. I have had a great deal of business to attend
to, or I should have been here sooner. Would you like to
take a ride. with me ? I mean all of you."

"I do not care for pleasure now," said the major sadly.
"I shall never be myself again, John. Bitterness is my
portion the remainderof my days. Still, 1 will go with you."

"I'd Uke a ride," said Mrs. Grippin. " I've had to
foot it ever since we lived here. Where is your team ? "

"Behind the blacksmith shop," replied John.

"What in the world ! " exclaimed Mrs. Grippin, as they.
came around the corner of the shop.

Her exclamation was caused by a perfect model of the
New Jerusalem, before which stood the major's favorite
team, Taylor and Bill. The major said not a word. He
eyed with admiration the New Jerusalem, its spotless paint, .
the make of its wheels and its superior ironing. One
after another, he picked up the wheels and revolved them.
A single noticeable attribute of the old vehicle was miss-
ing, the wailing squeak of the left hind wheel. The
major went to the horses' heads. He patted alternately
the noses of Taylor and Bill. He went back to the wagon,
lifted the wheels, examined the irons and returned to the
noses of tBe team. His actions were like those of a small
boy who hardly knows on which of several attractions to
bestow his notice.

"I begofyou to accept the team and wagon," said John.
"I wish to make a slight present to the old friend who
gave me the first social recognition I ever knew."

Themajor turnedhisback to thegroupand stood silent
for a moment.

"Come, James," said Mrs. Grippin sharply, " we're
waiting for a ride."

Ratke, clambering into the front box, at John's request
took the lines.

"Where did you get this wagon ? " asked Mrs. Grippin,

"I ^ot the model of Phelps," replied John, " and had it
made m Jackson,"

"There's that patent-medicine man," said Mrs. Grippin,



330 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y,

who had been prevented by her low position from sooner
observing the pedestrian.

"You are just the man I want to see, Major," said
Panicky as Ratke stopped.. ** No, drive right along, Til
climb in behind. Why, Lehmann," he exclaimed, seating
himself on the end-board, " you're out here, are you ?
You can't tell who's who when you're ahead of this kind
of a wagon. I never saw one like it before. What kind
of a thing is it ? "

"It is a wagon," said John, " a new kind."

"Gosh ! " remarked Panicky, " I should think it was a
new kind. Where did you get the concern ? "

"Sir," said the major, turning suddenly around, " I am
the inventor of this wagon."

"Oh, I beg your pardon," stammered Panicky. " It's
a' blamed nice thing and I know it. Anybody with half
an eye can see that. Is your health pretty good, Mrs. Grip-
pin t " he inquired at the end of an embarrassing lull in
the conversation.

"Yes," said Mrs. Grippin, " I don't want to buy any
medicine."

"Oh, I wasn't thinking about that," Panicky protested.
"It has been a very sickly time and my stock of medicine
is almost out. I can't spare any except in extreme cases.
There's fever and ague and summer-complaint and hay-
fever, all running at once. It's,* Dabney, I want some pana-
cea,' * Dabney, give me another bottle of that,' * Dabney,
my family's lost without the panacea.* Yesterday a man
that had cut his thumb threatened to prosecute me. I
told him there was others that needed it worse than he
did."

"What's the use of lying so t " said Mrs. Grippin in
disgust.

There was a sound of rapid steps over the hard road
which stretched toward the church, and Sparks, with his
recovered Madge T., drove alongside the New Jerusalem.
Without slackening his speed he looked at Ratke, wonder-
ing ho'Vf in h\s poverty he could again drive his queer
equipage.

"Bought 'ei2i hack, have you, Major ? " he called, as he
whisked fniiuip^^ntly by.




THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK o'Day. 331

"Charge ! " cried the major.

The horses, remembering their education, instantly
sprang forward. Ratke maintained his balance, Mrs.
Grippin, Manie and John were thrown to the bottom of
the respective boxes which they occupied, while Panicky
was precipitated on his head in a puddle of water, with his
heels pointing upward and his satchels following him in
his descent. The gray Bill ran as usual, but Taylor after
the first jump surprised Ratke by settling down to a trot

which brought him steadily nearer the wheel of Sparks's
sulky.


"By George ! " cried the major, in great excitement,
rising to his feet and with his whip extended, standing like
a picture of an ancient warrior on a chariot brandishmg a
spear, " Look at him throw out his forefeet ! Here's
the race you wanted, Sparks. Look out, I'm going by! "
he yelled as Madge T,, seeing that she was losing ground,
raised both her forefeet in the air at once. " Where's
your fine-blooded Madge ? What do you think of Well-
ington stock now. Sparks ?"

Ratke was still erect and still swinging his whip. His
hat had blown off, and his hair, which was several in-
ches long, stood out horizontally in the rush of air
occasioned by tlieir speed. Madge's break hastened her
defeat, which, had she maintained her practiced gait, she
could not have avoided ; and her nose was in a short
time behind the rear box of Ratke's wagon.

"James," screamed Mrs. Grippin, clutching the box,
"you act crazy. Quit your driving so fast ! "

"Ail right, Maria. Shall I let him go by ? " said Ratke,
who knew that Mrs. Grippin would be as averse as he to
the triumph of Sparks.

"Oh, do just as you want to," replied Mrs, Grippin in
a resigned manner. "You will any way,"

"Step along there, Taylor ! " sang the major with an-
other flourish of his whip. " Get down to it, boy ! Steady

"Let us stop here," said John, as they neared RatVe's

old homestead.

Sparks was walking his horse that he mis^^ '^'^^ aeem
to be an unsuccessful contestant of the v ce. '^^'""^^V



332



THE CHRONICLES OE BREAK 0' DA Y.



mudded and disconsolate, was with his satchels trudging
along in the rear.

The owner of the farm evidently had a desire, to bring
it as near as possible to its former aspect, for the buildings
were constructed after the model of those which were
burned. The three barns partly enclosed the same rect-
angle, which was completed by the connecting fence, but
the cock on the central one was smaller, and his comb less
prominent. No change was visible in the tool-house.
Aside from the newness of its green paint, the club-house,
which, surmounted by a cupola, was particularly neat,
had sustained but one noticeable alteration, the ornament-
ation and protection by a triple-pointed, instead of a
single-pointed, lightning-rod. The Gothic house with its
three sharp gables was as of old, except that it looked as
if it had been immersed in the fountain of youth, which
had given it new shingles, new chimneys and door-knobs,
had brightened the exterior of ils walls and covered its
paintless spots. The saddest and only irremediable in-
jury which had been wrought was among the spruce trees,
the shriveled and blackened branches of which were
mournful reminders of the once thrifty grove. Those
nearest the house were limbless. Those farther on had
dusky, bare arms. Still nearer the road were the leaves
which had been left and which varied in color from red-
dish-brown to green, according to their distance from the
flames by which they had been scorched. Through the
desolation the house showed with a distinctness, which
brought vividly to the minds of those who had frequented
the place the catastrophe so destructive to its luxuriant
screen.

"Are you going into the yard ? " asked Ratke.

"Yes," answered John, " we may as well look around."

In advance of the Ratkes, he went up the steps, un-
locked the sitting-room door and opened it.

"f would not do that," protested the major. " Gower
would not like it, if he knew it, I heard Durgenson had
sold it to him."

"I Lave his permission to go through the house," said
John,

The major Ap^jtated no longer. "He has been in



THE CHROJ^ICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y. 335.

Jackson these dozen years. I hardly thought he would
want to live here. Let us go into the parlor."

In the parlor were ftflir bookcases closely resembling
those the loss of which the major had sustained, and they,
held many of the works which it had been his wont to
study. He could not resist opening them and examining
their contents.

"Here is a Tractacus de Veritate," he cried. " I'
never saw but two copies of it before. One of them. your
grandfather had," He busied himself with the book,,
while Mrs. Grippin was in another part of the house and
John and Manie, sitting on the sofa, conversed in low
tones,

"I can disprove that line of argument," he said, putting
down the open volume, " Lord Herbert has made it
very easy for his guard to be beaten, down in that



"I have a paper for you to examine," said John, e???-



334 ^-^^ CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

When the major returned, he was whittling some pieces
of pine.

"I have the plan of it, Manie," he said, " a plan which
must be successful."

"A plan of whttt ? " asked Manie.

"Why, of the churn, to be sure," said Ratke, " What
did you think I meant ? You see the dasher is fixed so
as to revolve. Loose as it is, it will turn, of course, in
the direction which offers the least resistance ; and the
twisting shape of the paddles makes it incline downward
and to one side when a downward stroke is given, and
upward and to one side when an upward stroke is given.
As it goes downward, the cream is whirled one way ; as
it goes upward, it is whirled the other way. This gives
an alternate rotary motion, all the benefits of the swing
churn without the tedious labor of working it. The quick
change in the circular motion is of special advantage.
The preservation of the butter grain and its speedy gather-
ing is a combination of results which will make my chum
ahead of anything yet invented."

After the delivery of this speech the major went into
the front yard, proceeded to the rear of the house and
directed his steps toward the grubs. At the left Daggett
and Brown were husking corn with the utmost speed.
Archer, apparently forsaken by his habit of laziness, was
maintaining a stifl swifter gait. Steady Jack Sheppard,
who never hurried, who never failed to do a good day's
work, was throwing out the ears at a uniform rate without
looking up, to the right, or to the left.

The major sought the seclusion of the grubs, where he
sat on a decayed log, meditating on the recent change in
his mood from suicidal despair to joyous serenity. In his
possession were the two-and-one-half sections, the fields,
woods and swamp which had been dear to him in the
prime of manhood and were dearer yet in his old age.
As he stepped from the grubs, how complete seemed the
restoration of his fortunes. The view, save the min of
the trees, was as it had been. In the swamp, much of
which had been protected by standing water or the damp-
ness of the groutid, the course of the fire was plainly
tnarJced. Ratk^ looked with such satisfaction as he never



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK C DA Y. 335

had previously felt in the contemplation of his estate, on
the brown woods, the shocked corn, and the new wheat,
which was thick and promising. Jake was husking com
exactly as he had been when Ifatke entered the grubs.
Daggett and Brown were still energetically working.
Archer's hands, however, were moving very slowly, and
he was beginning a monotonous chant :
"Oh, horrible it is to relate,

The tale 1 have to tell,
About the cruel and hard fate-
That a young maid befell."

A noisy barking and yelping fell on Ratke's ear.
Philetus was dogging away from the vicinity of his house
a herd of cattle, among which were surely several former
tenants of the place.

"How natural that seems," thought the major. " He
must stay, for it would not seem like the old farm with-
out him."

The clanging of the upright saw, elicited by the vigor-
ous hammering of Mrs. Grippin, announced that dinner
was ready. Archer, Brown and Daggett came to the
house together, Daggett joking in his usual way, while
Jake followed them. At dinner it was plain to the major
that two things to complete the restoration of the ancient
state of affairs were lacking, the coarse repartee of the
hands, who, as they entered the house, ceased their
boisterous remarks, and the sharp criticism of Mrs.
Grippin, who would not gratify him by a caustic speech.
He wished that Daggett would anger her by a joke, or
that Archer would fire her wrath by digging an ugly hol-
low in the butter, but neither hope was reahzed.

After dinner Ratke sauntered to the tool-house, where
he found the New Jerusalem, his one-man saw and a large
quantity of irons. He wondered where such a variety
of old wheels, bars, pinions and cranks had been col-
lected.

When he returned to the house and entered the parlor,
John, who had been sitting on the sofa with Manie, moved
suddenly away from her.

"It has been my misfortune," said the majo'^) " ^^ de-
stroy one of Nature's forces."



336 THE CHHOUICLBS OF BREAK ff HAY.

"Is that -so ? " asked John, " how can you destroy -a
force in Nature ? "

"I misspoke myself," jsaid Ratke. " I merely clut^d
its application."

"How did you change its application ? " inquired
John.

"Gravity decreases," said the major, " as the square df
the distance increases. The absolute force of a center of
attraction is the intensity of force of attraction at a point
multiplied by the square of the distance, which equals L
cube divided by T square. When I came into this room,
you were so close to Manie that the distance between you
was incalculable. Now you are at least a yard away' from
b???r.



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK 0' DAY.



CHAPTER XXXV.

STRAY LOCALS.

Of the six correspondents who contribute to the " Sharp- .
town Sun," an influential paper with a circulation of more
than 500 copies, I am by the editor considered second in
merit. He told me confidentially that, although perhaps
two of my brother scribes excel me in style, not one of
them has as keen an instinct for news as I. Thisindis-
putable excellence in newspaper work, an excellence which
is shown by my connection with the Sun for three years,
induces me to arrange some of the latter part of this his-
tory in the form of a correspondence.

Alf Boyle was killed while resisting the officers who
were sent to arrest him.

Mrs, Boyle, refusing to change her place of abode, con-
tinued her ministrations from her home in the wood.
 Sick people, needy children and her sabbath-school class
received her special attention.

Hiram B. Durgenson will not again defraud the farmers.
He was convicted of being accessory to the murder of
William Boyce, an Illinois farmer, and sentenced to the
Joliet prison, where, two years later, he died.

A watch was placed on Julia Wallace's movements. She
was observed to take water to the barn at night. Her
watchers, concealing themselves in the mow, saw her
open a trap-door covered with hay and descend to
the excavation which had been made in the spring.
With a lantern, which they procured after her departure,
they explored the underground stable. At first they
thought they had discovered the recently-stolen horse, but
a nearer approach showed them that this one was light,
and the one for which they were looking had been dark.
The next day, summoning a crowd, they returned to the
barn. The victim of the late theft said '^'^^ ??? ^^^^ *"^



338 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

form this animal was exactly like his Prince, but Prince
was not of a dirty mouse color. A peculiar whinny and a
pawing of the beast for grain settled his doubt at once.
He was quite certain that the lost was found. In the
stable where a huge rubber blanket, some bottles and
papers containing chemicals, and a kettle in which some
substance had been burned. The riddle was laid before
some doctors and druggists, who declared it to be their
belief that the horse had been covered with the rubber
blanket, the chemicals burned under him and his color
changed by the imprisoned smoke. A jury decided that
Wallace and Ab were guilty of horse-stealing, but Julia
was allowed to go unmolested.

Nora's grief over the fate of Montcalm, though sincere,
was not of very great duration. In one of her visits to
her Michigan relatives she met Fred Loomis, whose atten-
tions she received and whom she subsequently wedded.

Ratke's men, who believed they had contributed to his
great disaster, which was now repaired, worked with toler-
able faithfulness, but Brown and Archer would occasion-
ally shirk duty. The major's churn, to the astonishment
of every one except the philosopher, proved a success.
Its proceeds enabled him to repay John for the liquida-
tion of the mortgage, an act which, in the face of the most
vehement protests, he insisted on performing.

An evangelist came to Break o'Day, and Philetus
Takum was converted. Philetus remained a devotee of
his faith, until Lyman Sparks procured a superior breed
of cochins with immense thighs and full breasts, when he
yielded to the tempter. He was one of those who re-
ceived the word on stony ground.



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA K



CHAPTER XXXVI.

IN THE ORCHARD AGAIN.

Among the many advantages which fiction, history and
recollection have over present reality one is that they
make time their servant, I have in a few paragraphs
sketched events which were several years in occurring;
and I have purposely omitted many details, the narration
of which would have been laborious to me and the perusal
of which would have been tedious to the reader. It was
in October that Ratke regained possession of his farm.
It was in the following May that the closing scenes of my
story occurred.

The warm spring night was a continuation of twilight.
There was mirth in the club-house, from which at intervals
came the sound of dancing and of a violin. All the hired
men of the previous year were there, for they were fond of
frequent reunions. Daggett, whose zest for practical jokes
seemed unbounded, had inherited from his grandfather a
silk tile, which was very tall and very old. This worn-out
hat he had by using much flattery sold to Archer and had
induced him to wear it to Break o'Day, where It and its
owner were greeted with yells of derision. The defrauded
purchaser on his return discovered that ink had been se-
creted in the lining in such a manner that it had dripped
down and streaked his face with red. Daggett was saved
from a chastisement by the interference of the men, who
had much trouble in holding the infuriated Archer.

The major was in the tool-house whittling, tinkering and
philosophizing to his heart's content. He had removed
his coat and vest and his face was animated with interest.
On the floor were many pieces of newly whittled wood
and many cast irons. He was holding in an upright
position an S-shaped bar about his own height, which
he was giving the last few touches with his jack-knife



340 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O* DAY,

"This will greatly increase the modulus of the machine,"
remarked the old man to himself, as he surveyed his work.
"This saves the use of one wheel and cog. Unless I am
mistaken, it will strike the bar exactly on the center of
percussion."

John and Manie, who had been married the preceding
winter, and who lived at Lansing, were sitting in the parlor
of the new dwelling, with their chairs touching each other
and Manie's hand resting on his shoulder. The door lead-
ing to the sitting-room was opened by Mrs. Grippin, who
thrust her head inside the parlor.

"Why don't you folks have a light 1 " she said sharply.
"Sitting there in the dark when there ain't any need of
it, just as though we didn't have money enough to buy
kerosene."

"We have thought nothing about the light," replied
John.

"Just as you like," said Mrs. Grippin, as she closed the
door. " Set in the dark like heathens if you want to.
Some folks are so funny about such things."

"How little we are talking," remarked John. " Do
you not feel lonely in so dull society } "

"No, not in the least," answered Manie. ** I am never
lonely except when I am with one whom I wish to enter-
tain, but who has no concern for things in which I am in-
terested. Left without interruption to my own reflections,
I am quite capable of self-entertainment."

"My tongue has been inactive to-night," said John,
"but my thoughts have been busy. I have been thinking
of last summer when I sat in this room, or its counterpart,
and conducted a suit which, to tell the truth, I had no
reasonable chance to win."

"So you call those visits a courtship, do you ? " asked
Manie, with a/Smile which the darkness concealed, though
it could not hide the raillery expressed in her voice and
words. " Your main care seemed to be to keep me from
knowing your real sentiments, but I readily guessed them
from tliQ first in spite of all your precautions."

"Yes," admitted Jo^^> " ^ was afraid to make known
my longing. Whil^ ^ was in uncertainty, I had hope;
but I did not kt^Q^ ^low unhappy I might be when doubt




TtfE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA V.



341



was dispelled. My sex frequently offends by an excess
of presumption."

"The most frequent offenses," replied Manie, "are
caused by a lack of presumption, although the grossest
are caused by its excess."

"That is a strange and questionable theory," replied
John.

"Do you think so ? " said Manie. " I know a dozen
young men who are kept by timidity from enjoying the
society of ladies whom they admire. Their addresses,
which would be welcomed, are long deferred. They wor-
ship at a distance ; and by and by, when they summon up
their la^ard courage and are repulsed, they do not mis-
trust that their offers are declined only because they are
proffered too late. The ladies, whose attractions are ap-
preciated by other admirers, look with scorn on the tardy
advances."

"Now, my little philosopher," said John, " you are, as
ever, argumentative. To-night I am too happy for con-
troversy. I feel like dreaming rather than arguing.
Come into the orchard with me, Manie."

Silently they passed to the orchard. The sky was
almost cloudless and was brilliantly lighted by its thou-
sand lamps. They seated themselves at the foot of a tree
and reclined against its trunk. It was with a feeling of
security that Manie let her head drop on his shoulder.
As far as man could love, as far as man could cherish, as far
as man could protect, he would " love, cherish and protect."
She had given him her heart when he was poor in money
and in position. Now the poor had become rich, the
despised had become honored, the weak had become
strong.

They looked long at the fragments of apple-blossoms
which were dropping In the moonlight. One other May
they had been in that orchard, aye, under that very tree,
and had marked the beauty of the sight, a beauty en-
hanced by the manifold augmentation of fancy. How
vividly they remembered that Sabbath morning. Nor
could they forget that night when, almost in the same
place, in the net-work of moonbeams which came between
the apple limbs, they had uttered their first words of love.



342 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA V.

"At one time," said John, " I was nearly convinced of
the vanity of all aspirations. I thought that happiness,
if it comes, must be a surprise, that whatever felicity is
anticipated is sure to be kept from us. Now I know that
I was wrong. I dreamed of the bliss which I should enjoy
when I had won you, and I have realized it a thousand-
fold. Now, Manie, you must not dispute me this time.
I do not wish you to prove that I have had no enjoy-
ment."


