That night the major was restless. Harassed, over-
worked and overheated, he tossed from side to side in his
efforts to find an easy posture. His head throbbed and
became the seat of a dull pain. A strange roaring sound
was in his ears, but, when he sat up in bed, it ceased.
After it had several times recurred, and been dispelled by



252



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK a DA Y,



CHAPTER XXVI.



RAMOTH GILEAD.



Centuries of investigation have not revealed definitely
the laws of mind and motive. It is true that their inter-
pretation is attempted, that conduct is often prognosti-
cated ; but how often is the judgment set aside by that
superior court, the actual occurrence. Montcalm's con-
dition was complicated by the terrible excitement which
he had undergone. He may have been sane or insane.
It is my task not to explain but to narrate.

After his confederate, Bout well, had failed in his
attempt at robbery, Montcalm formed his second plan to
thwart the cupidity of Durgenson. As he stood over
Archer in Ratke's house, a strange fragment of memory
came to him, a fragment which, even then, he strove to
connect and locate. He had seen that dull countenance
when it was impressive, when it had terrified him. Some-
thing of that terror returned. Suddenly he remembered
his dream. He saw himself again flying through the
swamp, he saw Archer arise, he heard the shot which
stopped his progress.

His hand trembled as he removed the money-bag from
Archer's head. It was then that he was seized with an
unbalancing of self-possession, which sometimes con-
signs to an adverse fate even the bravest of men.

He was struck in the back by one of the shots which
Archer fired. lie ran nearly to the barnyard without be-
coming aware of the seriousness of his wound, but, when^
he reached the straw-stack, he comprehended that he was
badly hurt. The swamp was toward half a mile distant
and the intervening fields offered little protection. Too
weak to go much farther, he crawled into a hole which the
cattle had made m the stack, and at the entrance of which
^^g^tt had placed 5^"^^ short rails to prevent its being



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK 0' DAY, 253

enlarged. He burrowed as far as he could in the end of
this cave, covering himself with the littering which lay
thick on the bottom. Before he had completed the work
of secretion, Ratke dashed past the opening. In the
course of a minute he came back and but a few feet from
Montcalm commenced to don his trousers.

Of the bodily and mental suffering endured by Mont-
calm that night and the succeeding day who but the One
all-wise can ever know.

The day of anguish, the longest which Montcalm had
ever known, drew near its close. The shadows deepened
in the miserable dwelling where lay the miserable man.

Some one was again pulling straw from the stack. He
raised his head to see who was disturbing his painful re-
flections. For a moment, as his gaze fell on Manie, he
was glad, but his joy soon changed to longing and regret.
He wished that the burden of his sin were lifted from
him, that he were even then dying, and she his nurse.
Peacefully he would pass into that world from which he
now shrank, with her soothing hand upon his brow, with
her sympathetic words sounding in his ears. While he
was watching her, she hastily gathered ' the straw in her
arms and ran toward the barn. Montcalm heard the
conversation between Mrs. Grippin and Daggett. He
envied this fellow with his never-failing fund of good spirits,
his perfect adaptation to circumstances. He would have
traded his identity for that of the most unlettered of the
hired men, even for that of Archer with his ignorance and
egotism and his sleepy, inexpressive face. His recollec-
tion during the night was^ singularly fruitful. Before him
was spread out his whole life, a long manuscript, on which
he read the beginning and the end of error. Of all
events the most persistent in recurring was the murder of
Green. The frightful gash, the staring eyes, the dripping
of blood into the well, were presented as vividly to him as
when, gloomy and inert, he stood by the body of his
victim in the cellar. He recalled the minute particulars
of the dream which succeeded his crime. How smooth
was that river, and how typical was it of his boyhood.
What would he not give to be as he was and sport in the
meadows beside it, to plunge into its waters and cool the



254 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK (^ DA K

fever which was consuming his body and his soul. He
believed he understood why Green had leered at him.
That confident expression of triumph had been prophetic.
The murderer had met and was meeting his reward. His
encounter with Archer in the swamp was not meaningless.
Its second enactment in Ratke's house had, indeed, stop-
ped his flight and now promised to deliver him into the
hands of that being who had taught him his bland deceit,
whose recompense for service had been disappointment,
remorse and ruin.

Once more Montcalm crawled from the stack for water.
He had greatly weakened during the day. With faltering
steps he went to the tank. He took a generous draught
and wet his head and face. The cool water revived him,
and his tottering legs grew stronger. He believed that
his damnation was assured, and that he could add nothing
to the punishment which was to be meted out to him.
His one desire was to gratify his hatred of Durgen-
son. Very soon the estate woul4 be in the hands of the
dishonest stock-buyer. He surveyed the barns and the
house. What a fine appearance they gave to the place,
and at how little cost had Durgenson secured them.
He tossed the bottle by the tank. He would need it no
more. His lips closed tightly, his hands were clenched.
He threw the bag of stolen money into the hollow "which he
had quitted, and walked to the small barnyard gate, where,
hardly able to stand, he sat down. . But his rest did not
help him. He must go on before he was overtaken by
exhaustion. He walked a few steps farther, and, sinking
on the earth, commenced to crawl toward the house.
The straw was scattered thickly along his route. He was
obliged frequently to suspend his exertions, but he did
not dare stop long, fearful that his little remaining energy
would forsake him. From the place where one of the
ticks had been emptied, he gathered some straw, which he
carried in his arms. Rising once more, he traversed the
small space which was between him and the house. He
wished to get to the southwest corner of the building,
but it seemed to him that he could go no farther. He
raised himstM on \i\s elbow. Hugging the straw, he
^dgQd along on one 3^^^ ^"^ ^ ^^S- With deliberate des-



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA V. 355

peration he measured his strength, knowing that if he
were prodigal of it he must fail in his design.

At the corner he lay down for several minutes. A
light wind was blowing from the southwest. He raised
himself, placed the straw against the house and ignited it.
The blaze caught in the dry clapboards and rose slowly,
then rapidly toward the eaves,

Montcalm endeavored to escape to a cooler atmosphere.
He crawled feebly to the edge of the spruce, and by a last
pitiable effort succeeded in getting among them. A
column of flame had mounted high in the house. The
bright light and the dark rolling smoke reminded him of
the awful glare he had seen in the mystic land of which be
had dreamed, and he knew that his Ramoth Gilead had
come.



2^6 THE CHRONICLES OF BKEAK 0' DA Y.



CHAPTER XXVII.



The major gave a shout which awakened the inmates
of the house. Manie called to Nora not to attempt to
escape by means of her bedroom door, but to make her
way out through the window. In this way the two girls
safely passed from the building, though barely in time, as
the fire was sweeping along the gables.

The major's first thought was of the manuscript of his
unfinished work, "Naturee Concordia Philosophic Animi. "
He rushed to the parlor to save his prized papers, but as
he opened the door, there poured out a volume of smoke
and heat which drove him staggering back. He gathered
for another rush, intending to force his way through to
the secretary which held his precious manuscript. Just
then he was seized by Mrs. Grippin, Manie and Nora,
who pushed him through the passage to the sitting-room.

"Don't be a fool, James," said Mrs. Grippin. "Vou
can't get in there,"

Brought back to reason by the familiar voice and
address, Ratke instantly set to work to save his property.
He pitched a bureau through a window. He sent after it
chairs, a table, the sewing-machine, a lounge and a large
clock. The heat and smoke had by this time grown so
intolerable that he was obliged to retreat to the dining-
room. There he threw furniture through the windows,
and began to carry out crockery and kitchen utensils.
Then he thought of saving the things which he had
thrown through the windows, but It was too late. They
were already enveloped in flame.

"Oh ! look at the barns," cried Nora, when they had
gone with their last load from the kitchen.

The trai/ of straw which the major had scattered had



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK a DA Y. 357

major ran out and turned loose the horses, which went
racing around the barnyard, where the cattle were bellow-
ing in affright. He opened a gate leading to the lane,
when the mixed drove of animals hurried away to a place
of safety. They had barely escaped when the straw-stack
was lighted, every part of its surface almost instantly con-
tributing to the blaze. On his return he was obliged to
go around the barnyard, which had become too much
heated to allow him to pass through it.

Humanity alone had sent him to the bams. His
choicest inventions, which he was determined to rescue,
were in the tool-house. When he arrived there, that

h,.;Mi...> >n.^ woe nn <ipB U/ifh a frinHr> nliixcrB K<. ???.???nl-



258 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA V.

leafed and dry. It spread to the small bushes, where it

grew in height and intensity. It swept with increasing
speed over the outlying small trees, and up and above
the loftiest tamaracks. For miles could be heard the
steady roar and seen the long streams of fire which
grandly illumined the night.

The women carried pail after pail of water to the club-
house, but Ratke mechanically watched the swamp. Its
high volume of fJame, the grandest spectacle which he
had ever seen, had a singular fascination for him. Be-
numbed, as he was, by the succession of misfortunes, he
did not realize that he must leave the farm, that the
Barton hundred and sixty had left his possession, or that
his unpublished book and his Jerusalem wagon were bumed.
He did not speculate as to where his refuge would be on
the morrow. He gave no concern to the fact that he was
barefooted, homeless, hatless and coatless. He sat list-
lessly, occasionally turning to look at the women, the tool-
house, the club-house, or his dwelling, which was now
nearly consumed.

"Well, major, this is a bad business," said Sparks,
who had approached. "Did you save anything ! "

"Yes," answered Ratke, "we saved some dishes."

"That's a good deal better than nothin'," said Sparks.
"You don't want to be gittin' down in the mouth now."

"No," said the major.

"Have you made any pervision for the needcessties o'
the 'casion ?"

"What provision ? "

"Why, insurin'. Was you insured ? "

"No."

"That's too bad. They don't any man know when such
a needcessty is comin'. If he's prepared for it, he's all
right. But if he ain't he's, as you might say, in a bad fix."

The major had no pugnacity left to resent the reproof
of Sparks. He kept his seat on the stick of timber,
while his unwelcome visitor went to interview and, per-
chance, to assist the women, who were still, though inef-
fectually, throwirtg water on the club-house.

"Ain't you eot a hose for the pump?" asked Sparks.

"???^o." replied HiS- f'-rippin-



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y. 359

"It would be a nice thing if you had one. You^rto a
been lookin' out for that."

Other neighbors arrived on the scene. Among them
was the family of Holmes who lived near the church.
Holmes said that the tire had done all the damage it
could, as nothing was left about the premises for it to
destroy. The major's folks might as well go home with
him. He would think it a privilege to keep them as long
as they chose to stay. Offers of hospitality were made
by every one present.

"You can go home with me if you want to," said
Sparks. "1 ain't a goin' to say I won't give no help
because the major was careless, forgitful like. Some
folks is always careless, and otiier folks have to make it

"They're going home with me," said Holmes. "I spoke
first, and they hadn't ought to disappoint me."

Jennie Holmes locked arms with Manie and Nora, and
the three walked away.

"I must see to Uncle James," said Manie. "He feels
so bad. Some one ought to comfort him."

"We will go back and get him," said Miss Holmes.

"Perhaps I had better go alone," said Manie. "He is

"Uncle James," said Manie, "we are going to Mr.
Holmes's now."

"Very well," said Ratke. "No doubt it is best for
you to go."

"But you must come too."

"Manie," said the major, looking up for the fitst time
since her approach, "I want to stay here. I want to
watch the machinery which I have constructed, perishing,
as have my hopes for its success, eaten out piece by
piece, always with a circle of ashes around the uncon-
sumed part. Do you see the New Jerusalem ? The high
posts and the boxes are about gone. The spokes are
burned well to the center of the wheels. I cannot go
until those burn out."

"You had better come," argued Manie. "It will do
you no good to stay here."

"Yes, it will," said Ratke. "All my dearest earthly



z6o THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK o'Day.

possessions are in those embers. They are dying, and I
must be with them to the last. The fire is burning out
of them all except the hard iron. It is burning out of me
everything except the harder and sterner feelings."

"I did not think you were the one to give up, Uncle
James," said Manie.

"Give up ?" said the major, "No, I never gave up
to man or misfortune, and I never will. I am not beg-
ging, or cringing, but I am crushed, and I have ceased
to struggle. I care not what happens, I am ready to meet
it. Despair has no further depth to open for me. My
senses are blunted. I am in no great mental pain. I
have suffered so much that my capacity for suffering is
exhausted. Leave me now, Manie. I want to be alone,"

"I will not leave you," said Manie. "You shall not
stay here alone in this barbarous fashion."

"You have always obeyed me," said the major sorrow-
fully. "I thought you would not choose this as the time
to break my command,"

Much as she disliked to go, Manie could not violate the
gentle command of her uncle. She walked slowly, that
she might not join Miss Holmes and Nora, for she was
crying bitterly, not for herself, not for their property, but
for the noble-hearted old major, whose reason, she be-
lieved, was certainly giving way.

Now and then the group in advance cast back glances
at the conflagration. The brilliant display in the swamp
exceeded that of the buildings, as much as their light had
exceeded that of the match by which they were kindled.

The inhabitants of Break o'Day were awakened by
clouds of smoke roUing in at their open windows. Ris-
ing, they perceived here and there waving pillars of fire
standing out against the western sky, the torches which
the dead tamaracks swayed while their green companions
were being slowly undermined. They couM not see that
unbroken sheet which curtained the opposite side of the
swamp, but they saw and heard enough to fill them with
con .stern a ti on. They harnessed teams, they loaded wagons
with furniture and prepared to leave their village the in-
stant its desfructi'c" seemed imminent. But, in the in-
terior of tile svajnty *'''^'^^ there was no grass, and where



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y. z6l

the only indamiDHble material was the muck and the few
dry trees, the fire traveled with less rapidity than at the
edge. The people perceived that, though they had cause
for apprehension, there was no immediate danger; and
the exodus was postponed. A few of the business men,
including Dr. Rorus, wished fo have a better view of the
conflagration. The road westward, however, was in all
likelihood too hot to be traversed by observers in comfort.
They went, therefore, for a distance along the Slfarptown
road, turning south past Briggs's, proceeding west at
Barton Junction, and finally bringing up at the corner by

At Holmes's the two families made a pretense of retir-
ing to sleep. They rose early, and after breakfast went
back to Ratke. Before them had arrived the party from
Break o'Day, the major's hired men and a number of
farmers. Ratke was still sitting by the tool-house, look-
ing at the few points of Hame which clung about his Jeru-
salem wagon. He hardly spoke to his friends and ignored,
or answered briefly, their questions. Manie went close to
their ruined dwelling. Some blackened sheets of paper,
well-preserved in shape, were where the bookcases had
been, and among them she saw a page of "Naturje Con-
cordia Philosophias Animi," which could be easily read, but
which fell in pieces as soon as it was touched.

"Something ought to be done for him," said Holmes.
"He's lost everything he had. We can all give a liide,
and it won't hurt us."

"I s'pose we can," said Sparks, "there's been the
north fire sufferers an' the Oakville sufferers, an' now
there's suRerin' to be helped here. I'm willin' to help,
but of course it pulls on the pocket-book."

"Some one better pass around a hat and a paper," sug-
gested Holmes. "The ones that have it by them give
money, and the ones that haven't put down what they
will give,"

"I'll pass 'em," said Sparks. "Now, gentlemen, who's
a goin' to give somethin' to Major Ratke, He's been a
havin' kind o' bad luck. Of course he orto a made per-
vision for it. There ain't no question about that. But he
didn't, an' he can't help it. Nor there can't nobody h^'p



362 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK ff DA Y.

it;" and he held a silver dollar high above his head that
his generosity might be observed.

The offers of charity roused Ratlte, who had been deaf
to all other sounds. "Gentlemen," he said, "I can ac-
cept no charity. I am able to work." Then he went back
to his seat on the stick of timber, forgetful of the kind-
ness which was ready to succor him.

"That knocks the bisness on the head," said Sparks.
"We can't do a thing if he won't take it,"

"No, it don'l," said Daggett. "Just come along this
way a little where he can't hear us. They ain't got a
place to stay, and we ought to do what we can to help 'em.
Miss Grippin will take that and buy what they need, and
the major won't think to inquire where she got it."

"I don't feel like givin' in no such way," said Sparks.

"Then we don't want you to," said Daggett. "If a
man is too stingy to give anything, let him keep his
money to himself."

"Oh, I'll hand it over to Miss Grippin," said Sparks
quickly, "I was only a sayin' I didn't like such a
roundabout way o' helpin' him."

"Miss Grippin," said Jake Sheppard, "mebbe you
knew I bought that house an' lot this side o' the church,
where Halleck used to live,"

"No, I didn't," answered Mrs, Grippin,

"Yes, J bought it, an* I ain't no use for it, I'd like to
have somebody in the house, an' I rather, have you than

"You can speak to James about it," said Mrs, Grip-
pin.

"You see we don't hitch very well," said Jake, "that
is, he don't like me. I ain't got nothin' agin him, I
don't want any rent. We'll have you some furniture
there in no time. You can go right in from here. The
major wouldn't never think o' askin' who owned it."

"Thank you, I'll do that," said Mrs. Grippin.

A shriek rang out among (he evergreens. Hastening
to the spot, the curious spectators found Nora lying in a
faint. Beside her '^^^ ^^^ body of Montcalm, with the
face turned upward '" "" expression of anguish which the
great hea(^ thomh jT had roasted his flesh, had not oblit-



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y. 263

erated. The hair was burned from his head, and the
clothing hung on his body in ashes. The discovery pro-
duced that silence which awe enjoins on curiosity. Nora
was carried away, and measures were taken for her res-
toration to consciousness. For a moment the lookers-
on did not crowd about the body of Montcalm. But,
presently overcoming their timidity, they pressed closer
and soon became convinced of his identity.

"Ah ! what have we here ? '* exclaimed Rorus.
"Another murder ! Another case under your jurisdiction,
Sparks."

"I wonder if I hadn't better call the jury right to-
gether ?" asked Sparks.

"Certainly, certainly," said Dr. Rorus, breathing fumes
of whiskey in the justice's face. "Every man, every good
citizen, every poor citizen for that matter, the rich and
the poor, the high and the low, all of 'em ought to be
be ready to put down crime. Crime, which kills, crime,
which steals, crime, which robs, crime, which forges, crime,
which slanders, crime, which -- does mean acts, crime is
the worst ctjrse this country ever had and the most de-
structive to its morality."

Sparks chose the jury and began to nriake inquiries
about witnesses. "We'll have to have the major first,"
he said. *' He seen him about the last of anybody around
here."

"Don't go to bringin' him," said Jake. "He thought
his eyes o' this feller. It would nigh about kill 'im."

"I don't see how we're a goin' to help it," said Sparks.
"We've got to investigate an' we've got to have testi-
mony."

"Can't be helped," said Rorus. "Can't be helped.
Millions of men have died for law. If we have to sacri-
fice one, we'll stand to it like heroes."

"You know it'll clean use 'im up," said Jake. "If you
make 'im come here, you orto be licked."

The major at last arose from the timber. Hearing the
dispute in the evergreens, he listlessly walked in that
direction. Near the trees he went around Daggett, who
purposely stood in his way. Jake, as a last resort, put
both his hands on the shoulders of some spectators and,



\\\\



264 ^-V-S CHRONICLES OF BREAK 0' DAY.

gripping tightly without appearing to notice him, endeav-
ored to prevent him from passing.

"Let me through, Jake," said Ratke.

Jake reluctantly yielded. The major pushed his way
through and came unexpectedly upon the dead man. He
said nothing, but, looking long and searchiogly, he read
the story of the robber and the incendiary. The son of
his old comrade, his friend whom he had almost wor-
shiped had perished in the act of destroying his home.
His golden ido! was but shattered clay. Slowly he turned
from the body with an expression of unutterable despair
and went back to the hewn timber. Neither Sparks nor
Rorus had the heart to insist on his revisiting the spot,

"If they hadn't a made such a fuss, he wouldn't a went
up," said Jake to Mrs. Grippin. "Now they've done it, I
s'pose they're satisfied. You better git him home as quick
as you can. Miss Grippin."

"He don't act right," said Mrs. Grippin. "I'll have
Manie take him away."

"Come, Uncle James," said Manie, slipping her arm
through his, "we have a home now in that little house by
the church. Let us go there, you and I."

The major did not seem to hear her. He still gazed
abstractedly at the ashes of the tool-house but at last
yielded more to the gentle tugging at his arm than to her
words. Casting a last look at the irons of ihe New Jeru-
salem, he rubbed his knuckles twice across his forehead
and went silently with his niece.



THE CHRONICLES OF BHEAK & DAY. 265



CHAPTER XXVIII.

JOHN HEARS AN ACCOUNT OF HIS ADVENTURE.

The morning after his visit to Ratke's John left Mrs.
Boyle's house. To the very last she opposed his depart-

"I have special reasons for wanting you to stay, John,"
she said. "I can't tell you. what they are, but I wish you
wouldn't go."

"It is impossible for me to stay longer," said John.

"Then," said Mrs. Boyle, "you'll tell me where you
are going."

"1 will write after I get settled," answered John. "But
you will keep the knowledge of my whereabouts to your-
self. I wonder if a mother were ever as kind as you have
been to me. ,Good-bye."

John found Barton Junction to consist of a store and
a depot. He had been in the depot but a short time
when two young men entered the waiting-room and stood
near an old lady whose baggage was strewn about the
seats. The young men had the appearance of rowdies, al-
though they were quite well dressed. Both wore dark suits
and felt hats. One hat was girt with a flat and one with
a round braid. The younger, who wore the flal-braided
hat, seemed to be an ardent admirer of the other, for he
simulated many of his actions. He was most anxious to
acquire the dexterity which his companion exhibited in
ejecting tobacco-spittle through his teeth in a fine stream.
He attempted this feat so frequently, and his teacher
gave him so plentiful instruction that the floor was soon
spotted with yellow stains, and the old lady hastily began
picking up the articles on the seats to keep them from
pollution.

"Where did you get that hat, Tom ?" asked the
younger man, trying to train his mustache to curl upward



266 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA K

and then lop down at the ends as did that of his com-
rade.

** Oh, I got that to Port Huron," said the one addressed
with the air of an instructor. "They're all the rage
now."

"It's nobby, sure enough. Guess Til have to git one,"
said the imitator, sending a small stream of tobacco-juice
almost into the satchel with a skill which until then he
had not attained.

The good old lady was not fretful, but she was averse
to having her queer mixture of luggage subjected to such
treatment. Without the haste and nervousness with which
most women would have performed the task, she arranged
the several parts of her baggage and prepared for de-
parture.

"Did you ever hear anything of that feller that stole
Whipple's colt t" said the young man, who was called
Tom. "I ain't been around here much this summer, you
know, and I didn't learn much about it."

"No, they never heard anything of him. He was
sharp, that feller was, and they wanted to keep right out
of his way." *

"How do you know, Al ? Did you see him ? "

"See him ?" repeated Al. "I guess I did ! I was in
a boat trying to head him off, and he shot within four
inches of my hand, and the next time the ball just skip-
ped over my head. I tell you that was a close call, Tom."

"Why didn't you head him off ? " inquired Tom.

"Oh, he slipped by some way and got away from us.
He dove into them tamaracks, and then all Michigan
couldn't have caught him."

"Didn't you all feel kind o' timid ? " asked Tom.
"Wasn't you a little afraid when he come close to you t "

"Timid ? No, sir ! I told him just what I thought of
him, called hira every name I could lay my tongue to."

"The train's a comin'," said a rustic looking man who
had been watching from the outside.

Wrengell, who had been for some minutes uneasy in
his quarters, yet afraid to show any sign of impatience,
made for the door as soon as he heard the first rumble of
the approaching wheels. He was aboard while the cars



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA K 267

were still butting each other back and forth in the last
few jerks before the total suspension of motion. A blue
cloud and an odor of tobacco announced to him that in
his haste he had taken the smoking-car. With the con-
solation that there were worse odors than that of tobacco
and that he was in the presence of strangers, he seated
himself, but his brief season of congratulation was cut
short by the entrance of the young men who had been
discussing his adventure.

After a few preliminary puffs and jerks the engine
started with its load from Barton Junction. As the little
depot and the diminutive store with its proprietor on the
steps moved backward into the separating distance, neither
the voices about him nor the danger of recognition by his
former pursuer could keep him from sending a protracted
farewell look in the direction of Ratke*s. It would be
long before he could retrace his steps. During the period
of waiting, whose extent was painfully uncertain, he
would often in his boundless fancy send the reverbera-
tions of his music through the major's parlor, would wan-
der through an orchard with springing leaves and open-
ing blossoms, would pass his arm about an object beside
whose attraction that of the richly-clad trees was insipid,
if not forgotten. And how, when he had fed on the husks
of dreams and found in them no nutriment, would he
grow restless, waiting for the reality which did not come,
how his heart would sink if year after year the struggle for
respectability was continuous and unavailing. He was
aroused from his reverie by some negroes in front of him
noisily playing High, Low, Jack and the Game. Soon
after, he became conscious that the young men whom he
had seen in the depot were engaged in a talk, which was
likely to prove interesting to him.

"They nabbed Wallace and Ab, nice," remarked the
one who was called Al.

"So I heard," answered his companion, "but I didn't
learn how they done it."

"Oh, that was Jerusalem Ratke's work," said Alf. '
"You know in the spring they had what they called a
* committee of five,' to hunt out the thieves. After they
had the big hunt, everybody got disgusted and didn't go a



268 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK & DA Y.

cent's worth on the committee. All of 'em laid the whole
blame off on Ole Jetus'lem, But, when they had such a
time with that feller, what was his name ? -- Wrengell -- they
found a road that had been cut out in the swamp, yes, sir,
a regular road, and a place where horses had been kept.
Then Ole Jerus'lem, he was hot, you know, he raised a
big rumpus. He said if anybody hurt his man, Wrengell,
they'd be sorry for it. Somebbdy noticed that Ab and
the ole man wasn't to home ihe next day, so what did Ole
Jerus'lem do but hatch up a plan witti the committee
{Green was dead, and this here Montcalm had gone away),
hatch up a plan with the committee, you know, to watch
the house nights. They didn't stay away only one day.
They come back, and one night Jim Turner was a watch
ing -- he thinks there never was a man like Jerus'lem -- he
saw 'em go out of the house. He followed 'em down be-
yond Oakville, and there they got a horse from a barn
that belonged to a man by the name of Matthews. Jim
saw 'em go to their own barn with the horse, and then he
went home. In the morning he got out a warrant for 'em
and took 'em to Jackson."

Al the next station a young fellow walked into the
smoking-car.

"Helloa, Jim," said Tom, "we was just a-talking about
you."

"I hope it wasn't anything bad," said the new-comer.

John gave a start as he listened to the words. For a
moment he vainiy tried to recollect where he had heard
that voice, as he was certain that he had met its owner,
but he soon became assured of the young fellow's iden-
tity. He was in the presence of Jim Turner, who has
been given in two preceding chapters the distinction only
of being a friend to Ratke and of wearing a peculiar white
hat. He was alarmed at the new arrival. A boy came
into the car selling books, pamphlets and papers. John
bought a large pamphlet and held it so as to shield him
from the observation of Turner, who was seated with his
bacfc toward him, {,^1 who would, according to all likeii-
hood, occasionally p-lAiice backward as he conversed with
his companions. ???
"Oh, yes. H'e 1^ --iving you Jesse," said Tom. "We



270 TUE CtJRONICLES OF BREAK W DAY.


about, hiding the smaller ones, which in other places would
have been called large. While Ihey were halting at a
small station, John saw, even through the smoke- dimmed
atmosphere, five elevations, rising one behind the other
according to the order of size, the largest in the back-
ground.


VVrengell terminated his ride at Ann Arbor. He as-
cended a rise of ground and came to the main part of the
city.

"Can you tell me where the hospital is ?" he inquired
of a young fellow who had the air of a student.

"Which one ?" asked the fellow,

"I hardly know," answered John. "I thought there
was only one,"

"Well," said the young fellow, "there is but one that
amounts to anything. You don't want anything to do
with those homeopathic quacks. Go around the corner,
and yon will see a large square building with parts built
on it. Just beyond it you will see another like it, and on
that one you will see University Hospital in large letters.
You are sure you can find it ? "

"I think so," said John.

"I think I had better go with you," said the fellow,
turning about and accompanying Wrengell. "If you
should get in with those Homeopath is ts, you wouldn't get
a bit of help. What is the trouble with you ? "

"A trouble which I have had a long time," answered
John,

"Excuse me," said the guide. "Patients don't always
like to tell their ailments. That is the building there,
where that man is standing."

"I am obliged to you for your trouble," said John as the
young man hurried away.



THE CHKONICLES OF BREAK a VA Y, 27 1



CHAPTER XXIX.

AMONG THE INVALIDS.

John stood in front of a square building which was a
few paces from the street. From the rear of the square
part, at either side, branched wings, which turned and
joined in a large structure after proceeding back for some
distance. Wrengell subsequently learned that the wing at
the left was the men's ward, that at the right was the
women's, and the part where they joined in the rear was
the clinical amphitheater, in which surgical operations
were performed.

The man to whom the student had alluded had gone
inside the yard, and was about to enter the men's ward.
He was a sandy-haired man of about fifty, with very thin,
sandy whiskers. A defective mustache and a beardless
strip on either side of his under-lip .exposed in its full
ugliness his mouth, which was repulsive in the extreme.
His face was red and unprepossessing, as if liquor had
swollen its veins and thoughts of crime had governed its
expression.

"How do you do ?" he said with a smile, which he
meant to be affable, but which lifted the few hairs on his
upper lip and uncovered his mouth in a way which seemed
hideous to John. "Come here for treatment, have you ? "

"Yes," answered John shortly.

The man opened the door.

"Come right in," he said, as if he were inviting a guest
to enter his mansion. "You must make yourself at home
here." .

A long hall separated the two divisions which were
allotted to the respective sexes. The men's ward was a
large room with a row of narrow beds on each side, which
were capable of holding comfortably but one occupant.
By the head of every bed was a stand on which was a



272 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

wash-bowl and a pitcher. The white face of one invalid
rested on a pillow near the door. The rest of the patients
were able to sit up; most of them, indeed, were apparently
healthy. The diseases treated were, as a rule, of a
chronic nature and, with the exception of deformed limbs
and abnormal growths, few of them gave to an unpracticed
observer any indication of their existence. Several men
were reading. A number were sitting down, engaged in
no visible occupation. Some were conversing in pairs.
One man was entertaining several listeners with an
anecdote of the civil war.

"They come from all over," said John's new acquaint-
ance, "from New York and Massachusetts and from Cali-
fornia, and one from Texas. This is a great university,
and we ought to be proud of it. Let me see, where do you
hail from?"

"I have no permanent home," replied John, "I stay
where I happen to be called by business."

"Very good plan," said his new acquaintance. "Make
the best of your lot, wherever you be. Let me see, what
is your name ? "

"Wrengell," answered John.

"Is that so," said his companion. "Was you ever in
Branch County ?" ^

"1 have traveled around the state some, and I may
have been there," replied John, his countenance redden-
ing.

"Is your name John ?" the man inquired.

"What if it is ?" said Wrengell in desperation. "What
do you know of me ? "

"I guess we're pretty near relatives," said the man,
again lifting his thin mustache. "I'm sure of it. Wasn't
your father's name Archibald ? "

"What do you know of him ?" asked John, growing
sick at heart.

"Quite a bit," said the disagreeable stranger, "as much
as any man knows about his brother. We was twins.
You don'tsay he wasn't your father. Now, tell me honest,
isn't your name John ?"

"It is," admitted J???''"-

"I was sure of it," sait* the elder Wrengell, grasping



374 "^^E CHRomcLES OF BREAK o'Day.

guishable. Some of them had held him so that he could not
see where they put it and it had taken him a long lime to
find it. Ever since thenhe had hated sand-colored coats.

His history was being repeated. He was leaving be-
hind him shameful associations, ignorance was loosing its
grip, poverty had already parted with much of its evil
power, they were all about to slacken their influence and
allow him the esteem of men, when another disgrace


