morning, and I would like to talk with you a few min-
utes."

His hope of having his request granted was so slight
that he was surprised when she put on a straw hat and
began to raise the window. He assisted her to the ground,
and they stood together outside.

"Let us go to the orchard," he said.

It was there that she had accepted the first offer of his
company. He wished, but he doubted, that his words
would be as well received as they were on that Sabbath
morning when the blossoms were fluttering from the
agitated boughs. At the foot of a harvest tree Manie
stooped to pick up an apple. She was not hungry, and
she had no definite purpose in so doing; but John, suppos-
ing that she wished to satisfy her appetite, sprang up the
tree in search of its best products. Lik^ a red squirrel



230 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA V.

.he raced from limb to limb and soon descended, bringing
a pocketful of mellow apples, which he insisted that she
should take.

Now that he was in her presence, he was at a loss what
to do or what to say. He could not bear to go away
without taking her hand and bidding her an informal fare-
well which, if they were destined to meet no more, would
ever be a delightful memory. He dreaded to follow his
inclinations, lest he should be repulsed and their parting
be an event which would bring the most miserable re-
collections. He began to feel that their meeting was a
disappointment, that in social position and in mutual
regard they were and must of necessity be far apart.

"I must go in," said Manie.

"Oh, not yet ! Please do not go yet !" John remon-
strated. "We have just begun to talk.''

"I have stayed a great while now," said Manie. "If
people knew it, what would they say of my climbing from
a window to meet you at night ? "

"They will not know it," said John, "and there is no
hurt in it, I am sure. I own it does not reflect credit on
you to be seen with me. I am poor and disgraced. 1 do
not wish to drag you down to my level. To-morrow
morning I go away, and I shall not come back. Keep
from me in the future, but to-night bid me good-bye as
you would an equal."

"And where will you go }" asked Manie.

"Of that I am uncertain," said John. "I mean to
escape from my evil destiny. It has followed me like a
hound all my life. But I will struggle with it to the end.
If I am overcome, it will be when I have strength to fight
no longer. I mean yet to make a man whom the world will
and must respect. I will take no rest, I will work in
season and out of season ; and if I fail, it will not be my
fault."

"I believe you will succeed," said Manie. "" You
certainly deserve to."

"Do you think so ?" said John, excited so much that
his articulation was i^jdistinct. "By God's help I will

and try. If I
But if I succeed,



iJia Aiin^uiAiiuu WHS ifjCllSll"^L. -oy vrU

succeed / Manie, Af /^ Ratke, I will go
fail, I will stay away ^ fot^K ^^ ^ ^^^e. Bi




THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK o'Day. 231

if the world by its recognition acknowledges the wrong it
has done me, may I come back, come back with hope in
my heart, and ask you to be my wife ? "

"I can consent to no such proposal," said Manie.

"I do not blame you," said John dejectedly. "I make
an unreasonable request."

"You wrong me," said Manie.

"Yes," assented John, "I was foolish to speak as I did.
You have a right to resent such an offer from one in my
position."

"I care nothing for your position," said Manie, "But
your offer implies that I am selfish. It accuses me of
wishing to share your fortune, but escape your misfortune.
If I would have you at all, I would have you whether you
were rich or poor, successful or unsuccessful, esteemed
or despised."

Again John felt the buoyancy of hope. She was near
him, she, who, when he was menaced by danger and
tortured with pain, had with hardly an interruption oc-
cupied his thoughts for a fortnight. His arm stole about

"Do not drive me away just yet," he pleaded. "Repulse
me if you will, but after I have done speaking.
Manie, I must call you that name once, I did wrong you.
But now I ask you, shall we not go together in joy and
in sorrow, in prosperity and in adversity, in riches and
in poverty, in fame and in disgrace, as long as we live ?
It is a great sacrifice which I ask of you. Do not an-
swer me yet. Let me be in suspense. Let me think for
a moment that I have won you, that we need not again
be separated."

She did not reply, and his grasp* involuntarily tight-
ened. There was inspiration to John in every sight
and sound, in every message communicated by the senses.
The wind gently touched his brow.

Every orb in the sky was sending down its quota



232 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK o'Day,

blending with the sharp jerking chirrup of the katydid,
closed his eyes and plunged him into a reverie, which
was brief, delightful, and ever after unfogotten.

"I am ready for your answer," said John. "Sentence
me as you will."

"Yes," said Manie.

Her reply destroyed the last vestige of his composure.
He threw his other arm frantically about her and kissed
her again and again.

"Stop, stop !" said Manie. "One arm in that posture
is enough. I shall have to go in now."

They said nothing as they walked to the house. John
opened the window and lifted her carefully through.

"Give me a good-night kiss," he said. "I do not like
to take leave of you as formally as I did the last time I
was in the house."

"I hope you are satisfied now," she said, after his
demand had been granted.

He was about to take another salute without per-
mission, when Manie, anticipating his design, quickly
withdrew her head and closed the window.






234 ^^^ CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

major in his most polite manner introduced Mr. Bout-
well to the young ladies.

"So you've been fighting, Uncle James," said Nora.
"Who did you" have a fight with ? "

"I cannot explain it to you now, little girl," said the
major.

"You will, won't you, Mr. Boutwell ?" said Nora.
"Oh, you got into it, too, did you ? You and Uncle
James must have been together against a lot of 'em.
Uncle James always sticks by his friends. Didn't he
stick by you ? "

"Close enough," answered Mr.^ Boutwell with a grin.

"You are badly hurt. Uncle James," said Manie.
"Your eye is swollen, almost shut, and the cut under it
does not stop bleeding yet."

"It is nothing," said Ratke, "a little scratch. It takes
a worse wound than that to affect me."

Manie put a plaster over the bruised part. One of the
major's eyes looked sleepy, and Mr. Boutwell's face was
spotted with contusions and plasters.

"This way now, Mr. Boutwell," said the major, leading
the way to the parlor, "make yourself comfortable while
I do some writing."

"Manie," he called, when he had finished a short note,
"tell Mark to take this to Jim Turner. And now, Mr.
Boutwell," he said, "we will go."

"I wonder where in the world they've gone to at this
time of the night," said Mrs. Grippin, as the sound of
their footsteps was dying away. "Some notion James
has got, I suppose."

"Who do you think they had a fight with ?" asked Nora.

"How do you suppose I know any more than you do ? "
sharply returned Mrs. Grippin. "James ought to have
more care for his reputation than to get into such a
scrape. And the president of a big wagon company surely
could find better business than fighting."

"Maybe they stopped to Break o'Day, and somebody
pitched into 'em," suggested Nora.

"More likely somebody made fun of James' wagon,
and he got mad," said Mrs. Grippin. "That'll touch
him up the quickest of anything."




THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.



236 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA V.

to slave for others in their old age, and finally to be de-
pendent on local charity or go to the poor-house.

The major came home at dusk. "Well, Maria," he
said, "I have escaped without meeting any bad fortune."

"You want to look out for to-night," cautioned his sis-
ter. "Everybody knows that money is here. You must
watch it to-night."

"I am too tired to sit up," Ratke objected. "I was up
all last night. It will be all right under my head."

"No, it won't," said Mrs. Grippin. "You've got to get
some one to watch it, then."

"I hardly know whom to get," said the major. "All
the men up west have been to Oakville, looking after the
fire. Perhaps Philetus would come."

"Phleet," cried Mrs. Grippin wrathfully, "Phleet
Takum ! Haven't you got any more judgment than that?
You know he takes whatever he can lay his hands on ! "

"I suppose I might hire Abnei* Wallace," suggested
Ratke.

"I declare !'" ejaculated Mrs. Grippin, after a moment
of speechlessness. "Pick out a thief to watch money !
James, you are a bright one ! Get one of your men."

"I hate to ask them to do such things when they work
hard," said the major. "Mark is always willing to do
odd chores, but he did not go to bed till late last night.
I will see what I can do with them."

As the major went up the club-house steps, there was a
scrambling among the inmates. He opened the door too
late to see what had occasioned the confusion. The table
was covered with a newspaper, which was raised at one
cdrner enough to show several cards. But he did not
notice the evidence of immorality.

"Will," he said, "Maria will give me no peace until I
get a man to stay in the house to-night. She thinks we
are liable to be robbed. I have not the slightest fear of
such a danger, but to keep peace in the family I must do
as she wishes. Can you come ? "

"I've been to work awful hard to-day," said Archer.
"That's tough ploughing, you know. It's all I can do to
keep the plough in the ground. I could get along with it,
but I'm all drilled out."




THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA K 237

"I know it is hard work," said Ratke, "But Mark
was up last night, and I cannot ask him to go,"

"I'll go, Major," said Daggett,

"No," said the major, "I will not let you. You have
lost sleep enough."

"I wouldn't care so much about it," said Archer, "if it
wasn't for to-morrow. But this working as tight as you
can jump and then being up all night, and then keeping
right on the next day, it's too much."

"Oh, as to that," said Ratke, "you can sleep twenty-
four hours, commencing at six o'clock, if you wish."

"Seeing it's an emergency, I'll go," said Archer. "Of
course, I'm willing to make some sacrifice, Major,"

"You need not come unfil ten o'clock unless you wish,"
said the major, opening the door to depart, "We will sit
up as late as that."

"He wanted you," said Daggett, "and he didn't seem
to want anybody else, I wonder why that was,"

"Well," said Archer, "he knows what I am. I've
worked for him a good while,"

"Say," said Daggett, "if you get into a snooze, and a
horse-thief goes to jabbing you with a fish-pole, you want
to holler."

Archer, not relishing the reminiscences of his watch in
the swamp, went at once to the house.

Mrs, Grippin was in a passion over the major's choice
of watchman. "Now, Will," she said, "I want you to
have some gumption about you. Wake up once in your
life,"

"Yes," said Archer, "I'll tend right to it, Mrs, Grippin,
The major knows he can tru.st me for that,"

"I hope he is right," said Mrs. Grippin, "He and the
girls are in the parlor,"

The major explained his plan of guarding the money.
There was no danger, he said, but seeing Archer was to
watch, he should take every precaution against a robbery.
He should extinguish the light, he should barricade every
door leading to the room. Then with the money and a
revolver he should get into a dark corner. The north-
east was the best one.



238 7'HE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

Wisconsin Territory," said Ratke, "when we were chas-
ing Black Hawk. We had been hiarching all day, con-
stantly expecting to come up with the Indians. At night
we camped in the edge of a strip of woods, I was just
thinking of what a fine sleep I should have when the ser-
geant told me I was on for picket duty. ' My watch com-
menced at one o'clock. They posted me at least seventy
rods from the camp, a short distance from a creek. It
was rather a dark night and as we looked for an assault,
I did not fancy the position. Standing where the enemy
can see you, but you cannot see him, is quite different
from advancing tpward a perceptible danger. I knew
that if the Sacs and Foxes were prowling about, they had
an excellent chance to get my scalp. Sounds as of some-
thing going cautiously over the leaves kept coming from
some woods on the other side of the creek. Presently
there was a disturbance in the water, a subdued splashing
which 1 knew to be occasioned by the crossing of a man
or of some animal. The grass, which was tall and thick,
began to wave suspiciously, and to add to my uneasiness
the waves were coming toward me. I was at a loss what
to do. Staying there for a target with the certainty of
being hit the first fire was not in the least agreeable.
Abandoning the post and giving an unnecessary alarm
was to be avoided if possible. I got under cover of
a tree, held my rifle ready to use, and waited. I could see
a distinct advancing motion of the grass. I own I was
nervous as I fired. I was still more so, when the steady
motion changed to a spasmodic struggling and some ob-
jects which I could not see retreated: I had now no
doubt as to the proximity of the Indians, but I did not
think it my duty to go to the spot where I had heard the
struggling. I waited a few minutes and could plainly dis-
tinguish more splashing as if others were crossing the
creek. In a few minutes I was certain that some figures
were skulking along between me and the camp. The dis-
turbance in the grass near the creek continued. The
camp had been warned and I felt justifiable in aband^
ing my post. As I bore to the right, three or four shots-
from the direction of the skulkers made me give one
mighty jump. I brought my rifle to my shoulder, fired



-^^




THE CHROJ\!ICLES OF BREAK o'Day. 339

and ran. When 1 got to camp, everybody was up ready
for an attack. The first man 1 met was the orderly ser-
geant.

"' Why, Ratke,' said the sergeant when I came up, ' we
thought they'd killed you. Did you shoot at them or did
they shoot at you ? '

"' Both,' I answered.

"' Well, that's queer,' said the sergeant. ' We heard
only one shot'

"' I should think it is queer,' I answered. ' I fired at
them. Then they got between me and the camp and fired
three or four shots at me and I fired back.'

"' ^fow I don't see how that is,' said the sergeant.
'We saw one of them moving off. We fired at him, and
he fired back, and the ball just scraped Montcalm's side.'

"' What ! ' I said, ' was it you who came out there ? '
I understood it then. They had heard the shot I fired
and had crept out, when we mutually mistook each other
for Indians, In the morning 1 found near my post the
body of the largest raccoon I ever saw. New guards are
always fearful of an attack from the enemy. They forget
that the same prudence which they have will keep the foe
from hazarding a rash assault."

"Can't you sing something for us, Mr. Archer ?" asked
Nora, beginning to yawn.

"Oh, 1 guess not, Mrs. Warfle," answered Archer, in

1Kb rmnnei- luhl*.!! inflifforoni orMcti fTYHiInir tr, induCC mOrC



"If



you



[uired Nora,
e most of it."
greatest intol-
ared, left the
exaggerated a

"I've heard



240 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O* DA V.

Aunt Maria say she never knew any one with such a
voice."

"Now, Nora," said Mrs. Grippin, suddenly making her
appearance, "you've got to quit such nonsense for I won't
have it ! You shan't be mixing my name in."

Archer supposed that the housekeeper was displeased
because she rightly suspected that he was making a deep
impression on Nora. Loath to give up the exercise of his
fascination, he exchanged sly glances with the young lady,
to the great wrath of Mrs. Grippin, who determined to
wait until the proper moment, and then, rising in her just
indignation, to send Nora to bed. But as Nora caught
the gleam of her eye, and Archer abandoned his winking
and leering on finding that they were not returned, the
Trebian ambush was never sprung. Mrs. Grippin finally
returned to her room, saying, as she did so,

"Now, Nora, if I hear any more nonsense, you'll start
to bed."

"Mr. Archer," said Nora, a few minutes after the de-
parture of her stern relative, "did you ever read history
much ? "

"Yes," said Archer, "IVe read it a good deal."

"Who do you think was the greatest man that ever
lived ? "

"Well, now, I can't say positive," said Archer with a
wise nod," but I kind o' think George Washington was,
don't you ? "

"No," said Nora, "I think Tammany Hall was. But
they didn't treat him very well, though."

"That's a fact," said Archer, "they used him miser-
able."

"Who do you think was to blame ? "

"Well, now, it's been a good while since IVe read it
and a fellow will forget, you know. What do you think ? "

"I think Queen Elizabeth was. Let'^ see. What was
it he said when he got on board the steamer that was to
take him to Cape Colony } * Farewell, O England, thou
land of my birth.' "

"Yes, that was it," assented Archer.

"Oh, no. It wasn't either, come to think of it," said
Nora. "Don't you remember ?




THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O" DA Y.



He "was a poet, you know."

"That's so," said Archer. "I do remember now."

"What do you think of Moses the Great ? "

"I think he was quite a man."

"I guess he was quite a man. He conquered the whole
world, you know,"

"Yes, I know it," said Archer, bobbing his head.

"Oh, no," exclaimed Nora, "not quite all when we
think about it. There was Elisha the Seventh, of Russia,
beat him at Waterloo."

"So he did," admitted Archer.

"How Moses the Great did run his horses to get
away," pursued Nora, "full-blooded H amble tonians, too.
They said they tun awful."

"They claim they scratched gravel to beat all," sud
Archer.

"You can find pictures of all the great men in this his-
tory of the world," said Nora, bringing from one of the,
bookcases a large volume with morocco back and cor-

"I like to look at pictures. Mrs, Warfle," said Archer,
taking the history,

"Let's see," said Nora, "they called Elisha the Seventh
Giant Lishe, because he was such a great man to fight"

"I know they did," said Archer, "He was a tearer
let loose."

"Isn't it time to go to bed ?" asked Manie.

"No," answered Nora, "I'm not going to bed yet. Go
on if you want to. I believe he was born in the year eight
hundred and two. I think his greatest exploit was at the
battle of Lundv's Lane, where he slew Olyppus the Tiger
with his own hand. Let's see, was it one of his own
officers that killed him ? "

"I don't remember," said Archer. "I've had to work
so hard lately that I ain't read much. But I was posted



242 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

"That's so, Mrs. Warfle," assented Archer. ** He was
teetotally smashed."

The door suddenly opened and the staring visage of
Mrs. Grippin was thrust inside.

"Nora," she exclaimed, "weVe had enough Giant
Lishe for to-night. Now you can poke straight to bed."

Manie immediately rose to leave, and Nora, knowing
that it was useless for her to argue, prepared to obey her
aunt's orders. She went to the bookcase and slipped un-
der her apron a novel, which she intended to read in her
room. Archer, left to himself, turned over the pages of
the history to see if he could find the portraits of the
heroes whose merits he had been reviewing. He found
many military scenes and many pictures of warriors
whose heads were adorned with smooth helmets or jagged
crowns. But in his search he was not confronted by the
battle-scarred face of Moses the Great or Giant Lishe.

Mrs. Grippin soon came back and ordered him to pre-
pare for the night's vigil. She blew out the light, told
him to get in the corner designated by the major and
bade him a final good-night.

It chanced that the sofa was in that corner. Archer
was tired. It occurred to him that he could watch as
well reclining as erect. He laid the money on one end
of the lounge, placed his coat on it and his head on the
coat. The ticking of a small clock increased his drowsi-
ness, and in five minutes he was asleep.

An hour later an intruder was in the room, carefully
lifting Archer's head and removing the bag in his posses-
sion, when the eyes of the sleeper unclosed and Archer
raised himself on his elbow. The robber dashed through
the hall, running close to Nora, who was returning to the
library with the book which she had taken. He entered
the front bedroom and sprang through the open window,
disappearing among the evergreens, just as Archer, who
was now thoroughly awake, fired two shots after his retreat-
ing figure.



THE CHRONJCLES Oh' BREAK 0' DAY.



CHAPTER XXV.

DURGENSON DEMANDS HIS MONEY,

"Oh, dear I Oh, dear! "wailed Nora, throwing her-
self on the floor. "What made you shoot ? Oh, Mr.
Archer ! What made you shoot 1 "

"I hit him !" cried Archer. "I know I did ! I'll bet
a dollar I did ! '

e of disturb-

)ney safe ? "
of that win-

lugh the win-
; to the gate,
adow of the
save himself,
he drew on
igly retained

landed Mrs.

can get up.

to her feet,

money, any
1 expression
cold lead in

id out over
in their em-
:red into the



244 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O* DAY.

hunt with a zeal which they had never manifested for farm
labor.

"It is of no use," said Ratke, as the morning drew near.
"The robber and the money are beyond our reach. Go
to the club-house and finish your sleep. I cannot give
it up yet, even though there is no hope."

Not one of the men would accept his offer. Unani-
mousl); they agreed to stand by their employer in his
extremity, and to continue their efforts as long as there
was hope. Daggett went to Break o'Day, roused a
few of the inhabitants, and made such arrangements as
he thought were likely to lead to the recovery of the ma-
jor's stolen property. The remainder of the hands and
Ratke were ranging about in the swamp when the ringing
of the upright saw in the apple-tree summoned them to
breakfast. While they were in the kitchen washing, Dag-
gett returned.

The late misfortune filled the major with a dejection
which nothing but the precipitation of his trouble and
the destruction of his hopes could create. The Barton
hundred and sixty had gone ; the homestead must go.
The study, the tool-house, the improvements which he
had made, were to be his but a day. He told the men
that they need not begin work that morning, as he would
like to see them in the club-house. When they had gath-
ered with many speculations as to the nature of his an-
nouncement, he addressed them in a brief speech.

^* My faithful men, it grieves me to communicate to you
what it is now necessary that you should know. For
years you have been in my service and have performed
well the tasks which I have given you. In every exigency
you have been my efficient helpers ; to all my enterprises
you have lent cheerful aid. Distasteful as is the duty, I
must tell you that we can no longer maintain the relations
of employer and workmen. Another man holds the deed
of my farm^ of which he can take possession whenever he
desires. The money with which I could have tempo-
rarily satisfied him and paid you has been stolen. I would
be doing you injustice if I allowed you to stay, when I
am uncertaiij that I can requite your honest labor. My
greatest trouble is that I am already owing you debts




246 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK a DA K

As he rocked back and forth, no reflections would come,
except those of the most gloomy character.

"Uncle James," said Manie, thinking to divert his
mind from his trouble, "we have a great deal of dif-
ficulty with the churning. I wish you would invent a
churn for me."

"That I will, my little girl," said the major, again tak-
ing his hand from his chin. "Leave me alone awhile.
I want to think."

"I have it, Manie !" he exclaimed at the expiration of
half an hour. "I have the plan of an invention which
will preserve the grain of the butter as well as the swing
churn and do the quickest work which is done except by
steam or water power. It is a dasher which gives the
cream the rotary motion of the swing churn."

"James," interrupted Mrs. Grippin, "you don't know
when we'll have to leave here. You better fill up all our
ticks with new straw."

???' Very well," said the major, rising at once.
He was nearly to the tool-house when Mrs. Grippin
called after him, "Why, James Ratke, what do you
want that coat on for this hot day ? I should think you'd
roast."

*' I should be more comfortable with it off," said Ratke,
who was too miserable to think of petty physical com-
forts. He went to the stack and pulled out some straw
I before he reflected that he had forgotten the ticks. He

returned to the house and brought them out, one by one.
' Then he thoughtlessly emptied them near the path. Mrs.

Grippin came to the door, expressed her displeasure at
I his act and advised him to take a wheel-barrow to carry

I back the filled ticks. Partly understanding her injunction,

I he took the wheel-barrow and brought several loads of

I straw near the pile of ticks.

"Take the ticks out to the straw-stack," called the
 housekeeper. "You're scattering the straw all over the

5 yard."

Ratke meekly obeyed. He pulled the straw with no
\ thought of what he was doing. He had tried to rivet his

. attention on the projected churn, but that was for any

considerabie teagt/i ^^ ^^???^ impossible. He was con-



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK (T DA V. 147

tinuaily reminded of the farm whose ownership he had
allowed to be wrested from him. He missed the clumsy
jokes of the men. Archer's monotonous song was not
echoing from a distant field. No teams were at work on
his fallow. Stagnation had come to his enterprises, his
energies, his hopes ; and ambition, its clamor for food
disregarded, had suddenly died.

"Right at il, Major," said the hearty voice of Durgen-
son. "I suppose the women got you into that."

"Yes," said Ratke, straightening from his stooping pos-
ture over a tick. "You are rather late, Durgenson."

"Yes," said the cattle-buyer, "but you see, I had
business so I couldn't come. I hope I haven't made
you any trouble by it. Has it made any difference to
you ? "

"A great difference to both of us," answered Ratke.
"The money I had for you was stolen last night."

"What!" ejaculated Durgenson with genuine disap-
pointment. "Stole I I wouldn't think you'd have let it
got stole."

"I was up until nearly morning night before last," ex-
plained the major, "and last night I had one of my men
act as guard. He slept at his post, and the thief came
through a window, took the money and got away, I wish
you had come yesterday."

"Well, I didn't," said Durgenson testily, "and I
couldn't. What are you going to do about it? I've got to
have something right away."

"There is nothing I can do," replied Ratke. "I am at
your mercy."

"Oh, I won't be hard," said Durgenson. "All 1 want
is what is fair. You can scrape me up a little, maybe,
???nd I can wait on you for the rest."

"There is no more scraping to be done," said the major,
"I have paid you all I can."

"You have a fair horse there," said Durgenson. "I'll
take him and allow you a thousand dollars for him."

"I cannot possibly do that," said Ratke.

"And why not ?" asked Dureenson. "I've got to have
something if I wait, you know.

"I owe some debts for farm machinery," SEud Ratke.



248 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

"I owe four hundred dollars to the man of whom I bought
Taylor, and I owe my men some hundreds of dollars."

"You can stave them off," said Durgenson, "Of course,
they haven't any security, I wouldn't pay them . a cent
when I was so hard up. I'd wait till I was in better cir-
cumstances."

"They must be paid," said the major emphatically, "I
promised it to them, and they must have it if I fast"

"But your men," said Durgenson, "they'd wait on you
a spell."

"The laborer is worthy of his hire," said Ratke. "My
men shall be paid before another creditor has the first
dollar."

"You want me to wait until you pay everybody else,"
cried Durgenson angrily. "You can understand now that
I won't do it. You promised me four thousand dollars,
and I'm going to have something, or I'll shove you oil the
place."

"I am not to blame because you failed to come yes-
terday," said Ratke. "Neither am I to blame because of
the theft. Neither am I to blame for wishing to pay my
honest hired men first of all."

"Just as you like," returned Durgenson in a fury. "I'll
send a man in the morning to shove you out into the
street ! Your promises are a waste of wind. You've
fooled me all you are going to. I did think you was
honest."

"Do you mean to say, you liar," cried the major, "that
I misrepresented to you ? "

"What !" exclaimed Durgenson. "Don't you call me
a liar I I won't take that from any man I"

"You are a liar !" said Ratke, advancing and peering
into the face of the cattle-buyer. "This is my place for
to-day. Now go, or I will kick you off the premises ! And
do not say one word in leaving ! Not one word," he con-
tinued, as Durgenson's lips moved.

Durgenson turned and moved slowly toward the road.

"Faster!" commanded Ratke, following close at his
heels.

Durgenson qiiickencd his pace, climbed hastily over the
fence and Stopped jfi the highway.



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK (f DAY. 249

"Come over here if you want toiight !" he said. "Come
right over here if you dare ! "

Durgenson, in the prime of manhood, large and athletic,
contrasted strongly with the haggard, white-haired old man
who promptly chmbed the fence to accept his challenge.
Unfastening the top button of his coat and drawing from
the garment his right arm, he stood undecided whether
to give or to decline battle. As Ratke advanced with an
expression of determination, he slipped his arm inside the
coat and fastened the button, at the same time saying,

"I won't be guilty of fighting whh an old man."

"Never mind the guilt," said the wrathful major.
"You must either fight or leave, and that immediately,"

"I don't like trouble," said Durgenson, making for his
bug^. "I'll have you out of here to-morrow," he called,
when he had got his horse under a round trot. "You've
lied to me all I'm going to stand."

"You ought to have licked him," said Mrs. Grippin,
who with the girls had come to the gate, afraid that the
major might be harmed by the stalwart cattle-buyer.

"I will not chase a man to fight," said Ratke. "Maria,
do vou know where the cradle is ? Thereaoer is broken.



250 THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O' DA Y.

swooped down on the outer edge of the swath, Undiscour-
aged by his awkwardness, he whipped the cradle back and
forth, making good time in spite of all ditficujties. His
face was covered with sweat, he was much fatigued and
the upper part of his right fore-arm pained him excessively,
yet he did not stop till near sundown. Weary, lame and
disconsolate, he went to the house, where he found wait-
ing the supper which he had no desire to eat.

"I must go at the chores," he said. "I had forgotten
them."

"No, you don't want to go at any chores," said Mrs.
Grippin, "You ought to know when you've done enough.
You stay here, and Manie and I will do the chores.
Act as though you had some sense. You don't want
to be sick. I'll milk the cows, and Manie can look to the
horses."

"I'll help," volunteered Nora, who was strangely sober.
"I'll milk part of the cows. Aunt Maria."

"We'll go right out," said Mrs. Grippin stepping to the
kitchen." Nora, where did you put those pails ? "

"I left them on the shelves," said Nora,

"No, you didn't," said Mrs. Grippin. "They're not
here. We'll have to take the water pails. That's all."

Near the barnyard they heard the sound of milk going
into a tin pail, and, opening the gate, they saw that Daggett
was stripping the last cow.

"Why I" exclaimed Mrs. Grippin, "It was you that
got the pails, Mark."

"Yes," said Da^ett, "I looked over this way, and I
got homesick. I wanted to come and chore around the
old barn once more."

"I'm ever so much obliged to you," said Mrs. Grippin.
"I hope I can make this up to you, Mark."

"I don't want it made up," said Daggett. "How's the
major ? "

"He's about sick, and I'm afraid he's going to be.
Durgenson was here to-day and talked hard to him.
He's going to put us ofE to-morrow."

"We'll be right on hand if he tries that," said Da^ett
impetuousJy, "euerV '"^" "f us. We'll make him and
his crowd wisii f/, ^ was somewhere else."



THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK a DAY. 351



