
PEOPLE
Wrengell, John - Ratke's farm hand.
Boyle, Mrs. 
Montcalm, Mr. 
Ratke, Mr.
Rorus, M.D. Mr. I. J. H. - Physician and Surgeon
Wallace, Ab - ht
Wallace, Mr. - ht
Whipple, Mr. 
Wingscheut, Mr. - German

PLACES

Break o'Day is one of the oldest villages in Jackson
County. It had its store and its school-house before the
first building was erected in Sharptown or Oakville. The
derivation of its name has been the subject of many
inquiries, which have been answered by local antiquarians.
The founders of the hamlet, like the majority of Michigan
pioneers, came from New York. Four families built
their houses neat together, that they might enjoy the
society of neighbors. Others followed from the Empire
State, and the neighborhood became thinly settled. They
had dwelt on the eastern hills, where, unobstructed, a view
extended for miles. They were now in the midst of woods,
where they could view no distant object unless it were
above the timber. Month after month they lived in this
manner, and daily the complaints grew louder. The
women, who had been accustomed to habits of thrift,
longed to see the sun rise once more. They declared it
was nothing but laziness which allowed them to be penned
up in that fashion, that if they were men, they would chop
out at least one place wide enough to give them a sight
through the forest. Urged on by their wives, the men
made a bee and hewed to the eastward a road through
which the earliest beams of the daily luminary might shine.
The next morning the entire population of the locality
gathered to witness the blaze of light which slowly
appeared above the long stretch of stumps. Shouts
resounded, guns were fired, a feast was spread, and the
place was promptly named Break o'Day.

The village never grew to the dimensions which were
anticipated for it by its first builders. Twenty years ago
its appearance was substantially as it is to-day. It was
built on five corners from which ran roads, one to each
cardinal point of the compass and one southeast to Sharptown.
The greater part of the buildings were on the triangle formed
by the eastern and south-eastern streets and
the cross street which connected them. These streets were
named in order, Warren, Jackson and Washington. On
Warren were the church and the school-house; on Jackson,
Birch and Bigney's store and the hotel; on Washington,
the hardware store and the blacksmith-shop. Marion,
running northward, could boast only of dwelling-houses.
The drugstore of Dr. Rorus was the one building of
importance on the west road, which, on account of its
shade trees, the villagers named Maple Street, but which the
farmers in derision called Scrub Avenue. This edifice
was painted yellow, had a high square front, a shed roof,
and bore the following inscription, "I. J. H. Rorus,
M. D., Physician and Surgeon."


Am I still in Jefferson Township?
You're in Washtenaw, now, township of Warren."
"I wish to go to Break o'Day," said John.

