CHAPTERS

x = completed first pass

Index
01 A Rural Philosopher 1 x
02 The New Jerusalem 10 x
03 A Glimpse of Farm Service 17 x
04 A Cirrus becomes a Nimbus 27 x
05 Ramoth Gilead Predicted 36 x
06 The Guerrero Mining Company 50 x
07 Montcalm takes a Nights Ramble 62 x
08 Pursuing the Depredators 78 x
09 The Village has a Sensation 179 x
10 A Good Samaritan 189 x
11 Controversy and Reminiscence 198 x
12 Action is Equal to Reaction 211 x
13 One Hour of Bliss 223 x
14 A Beethoven and a Gibbon in one 233 x
15 Durgenson Demands his Money 243 x
16 Ramoth Gilead 252 x
17 How the Affair Ended 86 x
18 Two Kinds of Bud Blossom 98 x
19 The Root of an Evil 104
20 The Well with a Barrel Curb 112
21 A Daniel come to Judgment 123
22 Montcalm finds Dante inaccurate 134
23 Ivanhoe Criticised by a Master 147
24 Mrs Boyles House 153
25 What Happened in the Swamp 162
26 Break ODay 170
27 John hears an Account of his Adventure 265
28 Among the Invalids 271
29 The Beginning of Mystery 280
30 Awakening 293
31 Liber Sextus 306
32 The House Divided against Itself 317
33 Verdure rising from the Ashes 328
34 Stray Locals 337
35 In the Orchard Again 339
Copyright

  I.      A Rural Philosopher x
  II.     The New Jerusalem x
  III.    A Glimpse of Farm Service x
  IV.     A Cirrus becomes a Nimbus x
  V.      Ramoth Gilead Predicted x
  VI.     The Guerrero Mining Company x
  YII.    Montcalm takes a Night's Ramble x
  VIII.   Pursuing the Depredators x
  IX.     How the Affair Ended x
  X.      Two Kinds of Bud Blossom x
  XI.     The Root of an Evil x
  XII.    The Well with a Barrel Curb x
  XIII.   A Daniel come to Judgment x
  XIV.    Montcalm finds Dante inaccurate x
  XV.     Ivanhoe Criticised by a Master x
  XVI.    Mrs. Boyle's House x
  XVII.   What Happened in the Swamp x
  XVIII.  Break O'Day x
  XIX.    The Village has a Sensation x
  XX.     A Good Samaritan
  XXI.    Controversy and Reminiscence
  XXII.   Action is Equal to Reaction
  XXIII.  One Hour of Bliss
  XXIV.   A Beethoven and a Gibbon in one
  XXV.    Durgenson Demands his Money
  XXVI.   Ramoth Gilead
  XXVII.  Ruin
  XXVIII. John hears an Account of his Adventure 
  XXIX.   Among the Invalids
  XXX.    The Beginning of Mystery
  XXXI.   Awakening
  XXXII.  Liber Sextus
  XXXIII. The House Divided against Itself
  XXXIV.  Verdure rising from the Ashes
  XXXV.   Stray Locals
  XXXVI.  In the Orchard Again


PEOPLE

Boyle, Alfred (Alf)
Boyle, Mrs. 
Durgenson
Montcalm, Mr. 
Ratke, Mr.
Rorus, M.D. Mr. I. J. H. - Physician and Surgeon
Wallace, Ab - ht
Wallace, Mr. - ht
Whipple, Mr. 
Whipple, Mr. 
Wrengell, John - Ratke's farm hand.
Wingscheut, Mr. - German


PLACES

Break o'Day is one of the oldest villages in Jackson
County. It had its store and its school-house before the
first building was erected in Sharptown or Oakville. The
derivation of its name has been the subject of many
inquiries, which have been answered by local antiquarians.
The founders of the hamlet, like the majority of Michigan
pioneers, came from New York. Four families built
their houses neat together, that they might enjoy the
society of neighbors. Others followed from the Empire
State, and the neighborhood became thinly settled. They
had dwelt on the eastern hills, where, unobstructed, a view
extended for miles. They were now in the midst of woods,
where they could view no distant object unless it were
above the timber. Month after month they lived in this
manner, and daily the complaints grew louder. The
women, who had been accustomed to habits of thrift,
longed to see the sun rise once more. They declared it
was nothing but laziness which allowed them to be penned
up in that fashion, that if they were men, they would chop
out at least one place wide enough to give them a sight
through the forest. Urged on by their wives, the men
made a bee and hewed to the eastward a road through
which the earliest beams of the daily luminary might shine.
The next morning the entire population of the locality
gathered to witness the blaze of light which slowly
appeared above the long stretch of stumps. Shouts
resounded, guns were fired, a feast was spread, and the
place was promptly named Break o'Day.

The village never grew to the dimensions which were
anticipated for it by its first builders. Twenty years ago
its appearance was substantially as it is to-day. It was
built on five corners from which ran roads, one to each
cardinal point of the compass and one southeast to Sharptown.
The greater part of the buildings were on the triangle formed
by the eastern and south-eastern streets and
the cross street which connected them. These streets were
named in order, Warren, Jackson and Washington. On
Warren were the church and the school-house; on Jackson,
Birch and Bigney's store and the hotel; on Washington,
the hardware store and the blacksmith-shop. Marion,
running northward, could boast only of dwelling-houses.
The drugstore of Dr. Rorus was the one building of
importance on the west road, which, on account of its
shade trees, the villagers named Maple Street, but which the
farmers in derision called Scrub Avenue. This edifice
was painted yellow, had a high square front, a shed roof,
and bore the following inscription, "I. J. H. Rorus,
M. D., Physician and Surgeon."


Am I still in Jefferson Township?
You're in Washtenaw, now, township of Warren."
"I wish to go to Break o'Day," said John.


OTHER

__ Look at distributed proofing http://www.pgdp.net/c/
