The Chronicles of Break o'Day
by Edward Everett Howe
1893

[Transcribers's Notes]

This work was scanned and processed with optical character
recognition (OCR) by Google. However, there was much to
fix before it could be a proper e-book. For instance, stray
characters, incorrect characters, hyphens to be removed, entire
pages missing or gibberish. This repair work was completed and
the book released through the Gutenberg Project by Nathan Hartley.
Nathan performed this work in honor of his Great-Great-Great-Grandfather
George Washington Holland Jr, from whom these stories are believed to
have originated.

From "An Account of Ingham County From Its Organization"
by Frank Turner, George Fuller and Michigan Pioneer and Historical Society.
http://quod.lib.umich.edu/m/micounty/ARH7656.0001.001/292
"G. W. Holland was historian and poet laureate of Bunkerhill and
other townships where he resided for forty years. After 1876 he
became the regular correspondent of the Ingham County Democrat
and News, the Leslie Local, Stockbridge Sun and Lansing Sentinel.
He was justice of the peace for twenty-two years, so could write
from his court docket all kinds of stories. His pen name was
"Rough and Ready," and he edited a set of stories about White
Oak and Leroy townships, "Chronicles of Break o'Day." These
were revised and made into a book by E. Everett Howe that had
quite a sale. Four editions were published by Robert Smith
Printing company."

[End Transcribers's Notes]

[Google's Notes]

Author:                       Edward Everett Howe
Publisher:                    Arena
Year:                         1893
Possible copyright status:    NOT_IN_COPYRIGHT
Language:                     English
Digitizing sponsor:           Google
Book from the collections of: University of Michigan
Collection:                   americana
Description:

Book digitized by Google from the library of the University of Michigan and uploaded to the Internet Archive by user tpb.

Identifier:                   chroniclesbreak00howegoog
Scanner:                      google
Mediatype:                    texts
Identifier-access:            http://www.archive.org/details/chroniclesbreak00howegoog
Oclc-id:                      65747673
Scandate:                     20070524
Copyright-region:             US
Identifier-ark:               ark:/13960/t6h130v0s
Imagecount:                   360
Source:                       http://books.google.com/books?id=ARw1AAAAMAAJ&oe=UTF-8
Lccn:                         07007122

GOOGLE

This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library
shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project to make
the world's books discoverable online.  It has survived long enough for the
copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain
book is one that was never subject to copyright or whose legal copyright term
has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to
country. Public domain books are our gateways to the past, representing a
wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover.
Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will
appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the publisher
to a library and finally to you. 

USAGE GUIDELINES

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials
and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the public and
we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in
order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to prevent abuse
by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated
querying.  We also ask that you:

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use
by individuals, and we request that you use these files for personal,
non-commercial purposes.

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to
Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine translation, optical
character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is
helpful, please contact us. We encourage the use of public domain materials for
these purposes and may be able to help.

+ Maintain attribution the Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential
for in forming people about this project and helping them find additional
materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it.

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for
ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just because we
believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the
work is also in the public domain for users in other countries. Whether a book
is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer
guidance on whether any specific use of any specific book is allowed. Please do
not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used
in any manner anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabilities can be
quite severe. 


ABOUT GOOGLE BOOK SEARCH

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it
universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers discover
the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You
can search through the full text of this book on the web at
http://books.google.com/

[End Google's Notes]


THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O'DAY
BY
E. EVERETT HOWE


BOSTON
ARENA PUBLISHING COMPANY
Copley Square
1894



Copyrighted 1893
BY
E. EVERETT HOWE
All rights reserved.


Arena Press.


DEDICATION.

My readers who are familiar with the traditions preserved
in this history know one woman who is beloved by rich
and poor, a comforter of the afflicted, a friend of the
friendless, a mother of the motherless, in prosperity
without arrogance, in sorrow without complaint. To
Mrs. Fidelia Gibbins, whose character suggested the
Mrs. Boyle of my story, this volume is respectfully
dedicated.



CONTENTS.

CHAPTER
  I.      A Rural Philosopher
  II.     The New Jerusalem
  III.    A Glimpse of Farm Service
  IV.     A Cirrus becomes a Nimbus
  V.      Ramoth Gilead Predicted
  VI.     The Guerrero Mining Company
  VII.    Montcalm takes a Night's Ramble
  VIII.   Pursuing the Depredators
  IX.     How the Affair Ended
  X.      Two Kinds of Bud Blossom
  XI.     The Root of an Evil
  XII.    The Well with a Barrel Curb
  XIII.   A Daniel come to Judgment
  XIV.    Montcalm finds Dante inaccurate
  XV.     Ivanhoe Criticised by a Master
  XVI.    Mrs. Boyle's House
  XVII.   What Happened in the Swamp
  XVIII.  Break O'Day
  XIX.    The Village has a Sensation
  XX.     A Good Samaritan
  XXI.    Controversy and Reminiscence
  XXII.   Action is Equal to Reaction
  XXIII.  One Hour of Bliss
  XXIV.   A Beethoven and a Gibbon in one
  XXV.    Durgenson Demands his Money
  XXVI.   Ramoth Gilead
  XXVII.  Ruin
  XXVIII. John hears an Account of his Adventure 
  XXIX.   Among the Invalids
  XXX.    The Beginning of Mystery
  XXXI.   Awakening
  XXXII.  Liber Sextus
  XXXIII. The House Divided against Itself
  XXXIV.  Verdure rising from the Ashes
  XXXV.   Stray Locals
  XXXVI.  In the Orchard Again


CHAPTER I.
A RURAL PHILOSOPHER.

For a territory containing no high mountain system,
Michigan has a varied geography. In contrast to the
sterile hills and grand, pictured rocks of the northern
peninsula, the productive farms in the southern part of
the state form an area of fertility unbroken save by a few
patches of sand and some irregular strips of swamp. The
largest and most remarkable of these swamps passes from
north to south through Ingham and Jackson counties,
extending beyond the borders of Shiawassee and Lenawee.

This marshy territory is covered by a motley growth
of willows, huckleberries, spruce, tamaracks and a few
pines, in places so thin as to afford no inconvenience to a
footman, in other places so thick as to be almost inaccessible.
Horse-thieves, escaped convicts, and deserters from
the army, have successively sought its seclusion; and
never has the asylum betrayed the confidence of one who
trusted in its hospitality.

On the western side of the swampy belt lay a farm,
which, according to the census of 1870, shared, with but
four others in the State, the distinction of containing one
thousand acres.

The owner of this piece of property for many years was
Major Ratke, an officer of the Mexican war. He was
ambitious of acquiring distinction as a philosopher, both
in his neighborhood and throughout the world. He was
especially desirous of becoming famous ae a great inventor,
 and to this end he had constructed a large quantity
of strange machinery. In his inventions he aimed at
novelty, and so well did he succeed in this respect that
even his bitterest enemies never accused him of a lack of
originality.

One March morning in 187--, the major was in the sitting-room
of his gothic house working at an abstruse
problem in mathematical philosophy, of which he was excessively
fond. It was hard, however, for him to give it
his undivided attention. Troubles had been gathering
about his domain. A mortgage on his estate had been
foreclosed, and his hired help, never famed for efficient
service, now shirked duty with even more than their usual
faithlessness. His widowed sister, Mrs. Grippin, a more
acute and vigilant overseer than he, had from the chamber
window repeatedly viewed through a telescope the
delinquency of two men who were cutting wood on a back
lot. Her vehement arraignment did not induce the major
to take action upon the matter, till an event occurred
which he considered an insult to his dignity as a master.
He had sent them to the woods with an ax and an
invention of his own, which he termed a "one-man saw,"
but which his men called, from the labor of running it, the
"six-man saw."

Next to the "one-man saw" the ax was the tool most
shunned about the farm. Accordingly, as soon as they
thought themselves out of sight, the indignant laborers
took a half-day's vacation to get some tobacco at the village
of Break o'Day, which circumstance procured their
immediate discharge.

The major had thought it an easy thing to supply
their places. His surmise, however, was incorrect. Of
the first three visitors who called at his residence after he
put up the sign, "Wanted, two hired men," one was a
lightning-rod man, one was a book agent, and the other a
tramp, who hired out before breakfast, and after the meal
declared that it was cold weather to work and that he
would come around to begin when it got warmer.

Notwithstanding the foreclosure of the mortgage the
major was planning sundry improvements on his place. A
hill and a quagmire opposite to the house were eyesores
to his vanity, and he determined to transfer the superfluous
gravel of the one to the boggy surface of the other.
His first step was nicely to calculate the expense of the
undertaking, the only prudence of which he was capable,
for expense never stood in the way of his projects. When
he had finished a survey of the hill, he applied his mathematics
to ascertain its cubical contents, using a confusion
of geometrical and surveying terms to which Mrs. Grippin,
though protesting, was obliged to listen.

But, as he proceeded in his work, he determined to
originate a new method for ascertaining the dimensions of
solid bodies; and his inventive instinct prevailed to such
an extent that it became greater than his desire to improve
his farm.

He declared that he would invent a system of mathematics
which should be the basis of calculation for succeeding
ages. He formed a small earthen mound to
represent as nearly as possible the shape of the hill. He
determined to ascertain the weight of the hill by the rule,
"Similar bodies are to each other as the cubes of their
like dimensions."

As he was giving the miniature mountain a final pat to
impart additional depth to a depression on its side, his
sister interrupted his study.

"James, there's a man coming."

"Strong hand, is he?" asked the major, drawing his
finger carefully down the mound.

"Go and look for yourself," retorted Mrs. Grippin
tartly." I ain't going to wait on you and let you fool
with that pile of dirt."

"He is as faithful as the day is long," said the major,
going to the window. "I can tell by his gait. See how
steadily he walks. He would work at a good jog chopping
and keep it up all day. He would cut, let me see,
a quarter of a cord an hour. Eight hours a day. That
would be two cords."

"I'll bet he's the biggest shirk in four counties," commented
Mrs. Grippin sarcastically. "Anybody can tell
all about a man by taking him for just the opposite of
what you say he is."

Two nieces of Mrs. Grippin and the major now entered
from the parlor. The one in advance, Nora Warfle, was
fair and vivacious, with eyes over which solemnity rarely
drew a curtain thick enough to hide the merriment
slumbering within.

She was ever on the alert for the ridiculous and the
mirthful, and in her efforts at diversion she was not always
scrupulous about wounding the feelings of others.

Her companion, Marion Ratke, who resided permanently
at the farm, was a true representative of her father's
family. Her height was medium, her form symmetrical,
and her hair dark brown. She was somewhat handsome,
though she was too intelligent to be really a beauty.

"Here comes a peddler, Manie," whispered Miss
Warfle excitedly. "Let's buy something of him and beat
him down on everything he sells."

The man had drawn an attention altogether out of proportion
to the impressiveness of his personal appearance.
A common observer would at once have decided that he
had long followed the occupation of peddling. He was
of ordinary size and wore ordinary clothes. Strapped
together and hanging, one before his breast and one over
his back, were two large satchels. They seemed to have
crowded down his neck and pushed out his chin until his
shoulders were rounded almost to deformity.

The first characteristic act which he performed after
passing through the door was to anticipate the offer of a
chair by placing himself in one by the fire, as if he had
done the same thing in the same place a thousand times
before.

"I suppose you've heard the news?" he said, with the
air of one who holds a secret and who feels his power.

"I have heard a great many items of news this winter,"
answered the major.

"Yes, but the news -- the late news. You ain't heard
about the horse-thieves?"

"Horse-thieves?" echoed Miss Warfle. "Are they
around again? Uncle James, you want to lock your barn
or they'll be stealing Taylor."

"Yes," continued the man, "they've been at it again.
This time they called on, what's his name? -- this man that
raises horses over here. Queer I can't think."

"Sparks," suggested the major. "Lyman Sparks has
the best horses of any man in Jefferson township."

"No, that ain't his name," answered the man, "it's
Holmes. That's it, Holmes."

"Oh," said the major. "The best horse Holmes has
will not bring more than $300. Sparks has one for which
he has been offered $600 -- Madge T., a very good blooded
animal. He thinks she can outstep my Taylor. He did
pass me once, but he would not if Taylor had hung to the
trot."

"No wonder he breaks up," put in his sister, "the way
you train him. Do you know how he does, Nora? He
trains his team to run. He'll make them stand stock still
still he yells 'Charge,' and if they don't jump the first
thing, he thrashes them. Then the next day he'll take Taylor
out to trot."

"Mrs. Grippin!" said the major, his voice sounding an
octave below his usual speaking key.

"Maybe you can get this gentleman to work, Uncle
James," said Miss Ratke, wishing to put an end to the
unpleasant controversy.

"Well now, like enough," answered the major. "Do
you want a job?"

"I've got one now," said the man, drawing a bottle
from one of his satchels.

"I'm going to do humanity all the good I can, sir, all
the good I can. I am agent for the Great American
Panacea. This medicine is compounded of pine, hemlock,
tamarack, cedar and spruce, besides sovereign roots and
herbs known to the medical fraternity. It cures cuts,
bruises, sprains, wounds, incisions, hurts, proud flesh --"

"What did you say your panicky is made of?" interrupted
the fair-haired Miss Warfle.

"Panacea, Miss, panacea," corrected the peddler. "It
cures cuts, bruises, sprains, wounds, incisions and all
injuries to the flesh. It is also a sovereign remedy for
asthma, bronchitis, tonsilitis, laryngitis and all throat
diseases, besides being an excellent tonic for consumption,
dyspepsia ---"

"What is your panicky worth a bottle ?" innocently
asked Miss Warfle.

"Panacea, Miss, panacea," again corrected the medicine
man. "Panicky is in a battle where the men get in a
tight place with the rebels coming right onto 'em so they
have to run, you know. Then when they get whipped and
can't fight any more, they have what they call a panic, you
know, or, as you might say, they get panicky. But this is
a different thing altogether. Better take a bottle. Mister.
It is a sovereign remedy for asthma, bronchitis, tonsilitis,
laryngitis "

"I would like a good liniment for bruises," said the
major, "but it is impossible for one remedy to cure so
many diseases. If it is prepared for everything, it is
pretty sure to cure nothing."

"I ain't so sure about the consumption and the throat
diseases," said the agent reflectively. "I thought it
would be good for them on account of its healing proper-
ties, but it's sure business for bruises."

"Have you a good salve?" asked the major.

"That's just what I've got," responded the man with
alacrity, "Derrick's Dough of Life." There's Bill Higgins
had a colt that got his leg cut on a scythe. Laid it right
open so the hide was left in flaps. Bill says to me, 'Say,
Dabney, what'll cure that cut?' and says I, 'I've got the
very thing for that.' Well, he put on the Dough of Life.
In two weeks the colt was capering round to beat all. He
got into the corn, knocked over a fence, chased the cattle
and sheep, and killed two lambs and kicked the hired man
on the leg. And I don't know what the hired man would
have done if it hadn't been for the panacea."

When the agent had sold a box of the salve he moved
toward the back-door and said, "I guess I'll go down
and try your men. Maybe some of them'll want to buy."

"You better wait till noon," said Mrs. Grippin.  "Then
the men won't have to stop work."

"They never mind that," said the agent." They was
always real good about stopping whenever I come around."

"Of course they'd be willing to stop and gab with him,"
commented Mrs. Grippin, looking after the retreating
agent." James Ratke, if you had the gumption of a man,
you'd kick such loafers off the farm when they come
palavering round with an excuse for your lazy hired
men to stop work."

"How did he know I had so many hired men?" asked
the major.

"How did he know?" repeated his sister. "Ain't he
been here half a dozen times before? He comes about
every six months, and a nuisance he is, too. Ain't you
heard them tell about old Panicky? You're the only man
in the country that don't know him."

"Oh, yes," said the major, "I do have some recollection
of him; but I was away from home when he made his
last two or three visits."

"In the name of mercy," exclaimed Mrs. Grippin, "if
there ain't another lightning-rod man."

The young man coming up the walk might have been
twenty-eight. The preceding speculation concerning his
profession seemed correct, for nothing about him indicated
acquaintance with farm labor. His elegant form, his
dark hair and eyes and a heavy brown mustache combined
with an air of easy grace to make him one of those
so rarely met with whom any apparel becomes. Yet, as
is usually the case with such individuals, he bestowed
more care on his personal appearance than he would
have bestowed had nature made such attention more
necessary.

The stranger with few preliminaries made an application
for work. To this proposal Ratke did not immediately
reply. He gave his own name and requested the young
man to do likewise.

"My name is Montcalm," said the stranger, with a
smile which at once won the major's heart.

"Montcalm," exclaimed the major; "that is the name
of one of my comrades in the army."

"My father held the rank of captain in the Mexican
war," said Montcalm. "I am the heir to his given name,
which was Traceworth."

Instantly the major was shaking him by the hand." Is
he alive? Is he well? Where does he live?" were his
ejaculations.

"He died fifteen years ago," answered Montcalm, "at
his home in Cortland, New York."

"He was a noble fellow," said the major, "and his
sword was one of the best in the brigade. General Taylor,
in his official report, made special mention of him for
bravery in the battle of Resaca de la Palma. I was by
his side during the engagement, and I, like the rest of the
men, noticed his impetuosity, though I had little time to
watch my comrades. It always seemed as if he ought to
have been promoted, but justice is not in every case meted
out in this world. Did you ever hear him speak of me?"

"I have heard him mention his comrades in the army,
but I have forgotten their names," answered Montcalm.
"I was young when he died."

"We first got acquainted in the Black-Hawk war," said
the old man." He was generally good-natured, but he
had a terrible temper and was very set in his way. I
have suspected that that was one thing which kept him
from rising in the service. One night on Wisconsin River,
after we had been chasing Black-Hawk all day, the
mosquitos were very thick. Some of the boys rolled and
tumbled and some swore. As I was exposing first one
part of my face and then another, to see if there was not
some place the pests had less relish for, I heard a
threshing so regular that I knew whoever was making it meant
to push hostilities to the last, and when I looked, I saw
Trace sitting up and striking as deliberately as he would
plan a compaign. But it was a wicked vindictiveness,
and when the lieutenant laughed at him, he wanted to
fight.

"His set ways came near getting him into trouble once.
It was at the last battle in the Wisconsin territory. The
Indians had been beaten and were swimming across a
slough, bucks, pappooses and squaws all splashing around
together. We had orders to fire on them from the bank.

"Trace told me he thought it was a hard sight, and he
would fire, but he would take care the bullets did not hit
anybody. Most of the Indians were shot down before
they got across. One old buck turned back to help a
squaw, probably his own, to get her pappoose to shore.
Trace and I wanted to have that old fellow get clear; but I
while we were congratulating ourselves that he stood a
little chance, Ben Rogers, right close by, drew a careful
bead on him. Now, Ben was the best shot in the regiment,
and my heart went down in my boot-heels, but
Trace jostled him just as he fired. Well, Ben was mad.
He threatened to report, and if he had. Trace might have
got court-martialed, but he never did. Trace's jostling
did no good, however. The old buck fell, going over
the bluff on the other side. How long before dinner,
Maria?"

"About three-quarters of an hour," answered Mrs.
Grippin with unaccustomed good-nature. "I'll ring the
bell when it's time, and I ought to have a load of wood,
James."

"All right," responded the major. "Show Trace his
room. I must call you Trace on your father's account,
for it is a luxury to address his son as I did him. We
will make no bargain till after dinner."

After bringing in the wood, Ratke waited a few minutes
for Montcalm's appearance. At the end of that period
Montcalm came from the bedroom, wearing a suit of plain
clothes and a pair of stoga boots. Even this dress did
not give him the air of a farmer, which he had evidently
sought to assume. His hands, soft and white, indicated
that he was unacquainted with muscular toil; and his
whole aspect and demeanor, in ways not easily described,
pointed to the same conclusion. There was in his address
something which was peculiarly winning, and which would
have fascinated Ratke without the assistance of the
veteran's friendship for his old comrade.

"Why, you have made a farmer of yourself," said the
major. "No, you have only tried to. Well, suppose we
look around a little before dinner. Go to work now? No,
sir, not a stroke do you do till one o'clock;" and, leading
the way, the master of the domain passed out to a survey
of the farm; but Mrs. Grippin called him back to take
from her table the pile of dirt intended as the basis of his
mathematical calculations.


CHAPTER II.
THE NEW JERUSALEM.

Montcalm observed that part of the estate which was
open to his view. The white wrap of winter was nearly
worn out, but here and there islands and peninsulas of
snow glimmered in isolated stations from the somberer
areas of lately uncovered earth, or stretched away in
varying and grotesquely formed curves to join the more
protected strips along the fences. The cultivated land on
that side of the road was enclosed in semicircular shape,
and a strip of timber extended from the swamp to a point
northwest of the house, as if starting out to cut the
improvements in twain, and afterward repenting of its
design. At the western end it terminated in a patch of
shrubs over which could be seen the tops of the statelier
trees beyond. To the east the hardwood timber, mostly
of oak, skirted, till it nearly reached the road, along the
marsh which bordered the great swamp. The only signs
of vegetable life which were visible to Montcalm were in
the spruce and pine, which could be distinguished from
the tamaracks by their evergreen branches.

With the major discoursing volubly as they went along,
the two men passed to the barns. These were three in
number. The largest, ornamented on the top with three
cupolas and a prancing horse, was the center from the
extremities of which branched the others, nearly forming
a yard, which was completed by a connecting fence.

A discourse, which his biographer has not taken the
trouble to find, was given by the major on the character
and phrenology of each beast: on the horse which would
threaten but never kick, on the one which would kick but
never threaten, on the cow which would jump from good
to poor pasture for the mere satisfaction of being unruly,
and on several others which would jump from poor to
good pasture for obvious reasons.

"Here is the finest animal I have," said the major, laying
his hand on the hip of a horse with a long foretop and
a fine head and ears. "Zachary Taylor, probably the
best blooded horse in the county. Taylor went in two
fifty-nine when he was four, just previous to his purchase
by me. He ought to beat that by twenty seconds now,
but I have let Maria and Manie drive him. Next summer
nobody except myself shall hold a rein over him. Taylor,
old boy, you want an ear of corn? You have not seen my
machine shop," said the animated old man, opening the
door of a building at the west end of the group of barns.
"Are you interested in machinery?"

"I have an interest in progress," answered Montcalm,
"but little knowledge of mechanics."

A practical machinist would have had much difficulty
in classifying the various specimens of constructive talent
hanging on the walls and strewn in chaos about the floor.
Old reapers, clocks, fanning mills and threshing machines
had been dissected to furnish material for wild inventive
schemes, more than half of which had been left unfinished.
A strange looking wagon had in an unusual degree the
merit of originality. Each wheel, six feet high, revolved
on a peg set between two upright posts. These posts
were connected at the top so that the vehicle had no axle-
tree. Two boxes suspended from the posts, and about
two and one half feet in height, were joined together by
an attachment underneath.

"A revolution in road vehicles is coming," began the
major." The days of hard pulling and breaking horses'
legs by blows from the tongue are almost over. You can
see at once that this wagon must have a light draught.
The attachment of the tongue down low lessens the rolling
friction on the ground, and the six-foot wheel does a
great deal to lessen the sliding friction on the axle. Let
me make that plain. The passage of the wheel along the
ground is called friction, but I question its right to the
definition. One molecule is planted on the ground and
rests there until another takes its place, when it rises and
a second particle becomes the pivotal point, to be succeeded
by the third, fourth and so on. The only friction
then is in the adhesion of the surfaces as the upper one
is planted down and removed; a great difference, you
observe, from that which comes from passing parallel with
the surface of a body. But that at the point of the
revolutionary pivot is different. Here the wheel is continually
scraping over the axle, a resistance which it requires
much more force to overcome. A six-foot wheel revolves
every -- let me see -- every six multiplied by three and one
thousand and four hundred and sixteen ten-thousandths,"
and the major began to figure on the wall, "every time it
goes eighteen and eight thousand four hundred and
ninety-six ten-thousandth's feet. A four-and-one-half-foot
wheel revolves, I'll tell you in a moment -- every time it
goes fourteen and one thousand three hundred and
seventy-two ten-thousandth's feet. The smaller wheels,
having a swifter movement at the pivot, occasion a greater
amount of friction."

Montcalm, though tortured by the tedious harangue,
practiced his well learned art of flattery by attention, and
tipped his head on one side with an air of gravest concern.

"If I had it in shape," pursued the major, "we would
hitch on and try it, but it is not ironed yet, and it has cost
me too much labor to use it up recklessly."

Montcalm hastened to protest against the sacrifice to
his curiosity of an invention which had cost so much labor
of hand and brain. He was anxious, very anxious, to see
the wagon tested, but he begged the major on no account
to subject it to a trial until it was properly ironed and
fitted for running.

"I'll tell you what we can do," suggested the major.
"Get in and let me draw you, and we will try its draught."

To this proposal Montcalm objected, but he volunteered
to act as horse while the major rode. Accordingly the inventor
seated himself in the product of his genius, which
Montcalm drew back and forth, praising the lightness of
its draught and suppressing the grunts whose utterance
would have belied his statement.

When Montcalm's energy began to flag, the major inquired,
"You do not know the name of the wagon, do you, Trace?"

"No, I was wondering about that," answered Montcalm;
"it seems to me an ancient name would be proper, some
kind of chariot, -- Pharaoh's chariot for instance."

"No," said the major, shaking his head and clambering
from the vehicle," I call it the New Jerusalem."

"What induced you to call it that?" asked Montcalm.
"Was it the splendor of the ornaments you mean to put
on or some reason which I do not comprehend?"

"Well," answered the major, purposely keeping his
auditor in suspense," it is a long history. Some years
ago there was, over across the swamp, an old man by the
name of Barrow, an out-and-out Adventist. He said the
world was coming to an end before long. He could not
tell exactly when, but it could not be longer than '69, and
he could prove it by the prophecies in fourteen different
ways. He used to go up and down the road to Break o'Day,
and to the neighbors' houses, without a hat, always
with the same strain, 'Babylon is fallen, is fallen.' A
quarter of the topers and loafers who hung around Rorus's
drug-store were scared into leaving off an occasional spree,
and the other three-quarters had some fun repeating his
prophecies about the restoration of the Jews. One day
he came bareheaded out to the barn, where my men and I
were looking over the old wagon, the first one I invented,
and he began:

"'The world's going to burn -- going to burn up, I tell
you. The time of the Gentiles is fulfilled. Babylon the
great is fallen, is fallen' (the old man always talked fast),
'and is become the habitation of devils, and the hold of
every foul spirit, and a cage of every unclean and hateful
bird. For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath
of her fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed
fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth
are waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies.
Come out of her, my people. The Jews are to be gathered
to Jerusalem.

"'When will the great day come? "For the day of vengeance
is in mine heart and the year of my redeemed is come.

"'"From the time that the daily sacrifice shall be taken
away, and the abomination that maketh desolate set up,
there shall be a thousand two hundred and ninety days."

'"'That which the palmer-worm hath left hath the locust
eaten; and that which the locust hath left hath the cankerworm
eaten; and that which the canker-worm hath left hath the
caterpillar eaten.'

'"'We've had the caterpillar and the grasshopper and the
potato-bug and the weevil. Describes it exactly.

'"'And the desolate land shall be tilled, whereas it lay
desolate in the sight of all that passed by.'

"'Jerusalem has been so they couldn't raise a thing there,
not a thing, and now they're raising wheat. Wheat in
Jerusalem! They sent a thrashing machine there last year.

"'We've got to turn in with the Jews and go to Jerusalem.
Never mind your wagon, Ratke. You better make a Jerusalem
wagon.'

"Well, the idea struck my men so forcibly that they
dubbed it the Jerusalem wagon, and the name always stuck
by it. I like it well enough myself, and so after I made
the second one, to distinguish between them, I called it
the New Jerusalem."

It is as yet an unsolved problem how long the old man
would have continued the recital of these reminiscences
had he not been interrupted by a strange clamor from near
the house. The noise seemed to be produced by the
strokes of some metallic object against a steel plate, which
had a resonance sufficient to make the sound continuous.

"Dinner!" exclaimed the major.

As the men left the machine shop, the cause of the commotion
was apparent to Montcalm. Mrs. Grippin, with
the energy characteristic of all her actions, was using a
two-foot iron bar to belabor a long upright saw suspended
from an apple-tree, and that superannuated piece of
machinery was protesting against the punishment with
the most doleful lamentations.

"You have not expressed your opinion of my bell.
Trace," said the major.

"It has a very powerful voice," commented Montcalm.

"Make an estimate of the cost of that bell," said the
major.

"Ten dollars," suggested Montcalm.

"No."

"Twenty-five dollars."

"No."

"I give it up," said Montcalm.

"I calculate that that bell cost me about ten thousand
dollars," said the major, watching his companion to note
the effect of his words.

"Indeed!" exclaimed Montcalm, manifesting the proper
amount of surprise. "How is that?"

"That is the old upright saw which used to be in McGraw's
mill," said the major. "I got it for one dollar,
and, in less than a month, I had the plan for a drag-saw
for small logs that was ahead of any invention which had
been projected up to that date, for it was to take only two
horses. One day, about noon, I heard a hubbub loud
enough to wake the nations, and when I got where it was,
I found Maria pounding the edge of that saw just as she
is doing now. See how viciously she strikes, as if she
were bent on destroying the last vestige of its usefulness.
She had banged the teeth so much that using it afterwards
was wholly put of the question. I always suspected that
she did it on purpose to defeat my plan. And she did.
I turned my attention to the old Jerusalem, and before I
did anything more with the saw, a Wisconsin lumberman
had the start of me. If all people were like her, this
would be an unprogressive world."

On entering the house, the veteran found awaiting him
a visitor, whom Mrs. Grippin introduced as follows:

"James, here is a man that wants work."

The major made mental observations on the capacity
of the new-comer for labor.

The young fellow, who was not more than twenty-two
years old, gave his name as John Wrengell. His stature
was above the common height, but his form was not Stocky.
He had Saxon blue eyes, light brown hair and the sensitive
nature which accompanies the nervous temperament.
The evidence of a strong character was visible in his
well-shaped head, his expressive countenance and his
intelligent, though embarrassed speech.

The introduction to the ladies exhibited a vast difference
between Montcalm and Wrengell. Montcalm bowed
with a courtesy which was at once easy and pleasing.

Wrengell blushed, mispronounced one name, half mumbled
the other, and in sitting down overturned with a
backward sweep of his arm the heap of dirt so much
doted on by the major.

Miss Warfle with much difficulty repressed her mirth,
and the old officer with still more trouble kept back his
irritation from open expression.

"There, James," exclaimed Mrs. Grippin, who arrived
on the scene just in time to see the sand and gravel
scattered over the floor." There, I told you you'd have
that thing tipped over. Can't you bring in dirt enough
on your boots without lugging it in in a heap to make me
sweep up?"

"I thought," responded the major, "that my model
hill would keep its line of direction within its base, and that
its cohesion would not be acted upon by external forces
sufficiently to destroy it. My clay mound stayed here
two weeks, and it constantly maintained a preponderance
of attractive over repulsive forces, but clay possesses
more viscosity than sand."

"Viscosity," repeated Mrs. Grippin in disgust. "Now
you've got on one of your high-sounding strains. Can't
you talk so anybody can understand you? Who ever
heard of viscosity?"

"It is a mortifying fact," said the major, putting a degree
of solemnity into his voice," that I have a sister who
does not know the meaning of viscosity. It is derived
from the Latin viscum. Viscum, viscositas; French, viscosite;
Provencal, viscositat; Spanish, viscosidad; Portuguese, vis---"

"'What do we care about your viscos and viscovuses?"
retorted Mrs. Grippin. "When you talk common English,
folks give you credit for some sense, but when you
try to show off so smart, everybody is disgusted with you."

The approach of the hired men was now heralded by
the confused hum of voices, varied now and then by a
boisterous laugh. When they had taken their turns at
the wash-dishes, the towel and the looking-glass, they
passed to the dining-room.


CHAPTER III.
A GLIMPSE OF FARM SERVICE.

The farmhouse had been built in the days of Ratke's
prosperity. It was gothic in design and had three principal
rooms -- the sitting-room, the dining-room and the
parlor.

On the northern side, and extending to the kitchen at
the eastern extremity of the dwelling, was a tier of
bedrooms and closets. Not satisfied with the half-dozen
sleeping apartments in the row alluded to and several
more in the chamber, the major had provided for the
construction, on the side facing the street, of two more
bedrooms which, jutting inwardly, formed a narrow hall
between the sitting-room and the parlor.

The main divisions of the house were inappropriately
named, or, at least, not named according to the uses to
which they were put. The dining-room served much as
a sitting-room, the sitting-room on account of its superior
warmth was used in cold weather as a dining-room, and
the parlor, which contained the organ and the library in
four bookcases, was almost daily used by the family. It
is true that this subversion of common usage was much
censured by Mrs. Grippin, but there were, as we have
seen, on this estate and in this household, certain evils
which even she was powerless to remedy.

There were seated around the extension table thirteen
persons, the resident family of four, six hired men, two
prospective ones, and the agent, who was called Panicky,
and whom the major had easily persuaded to stay to
dinner.

"Major," said a fellow whose name was Brown, "how
is it when you're shooting birds on the wing? Do you
want to aim straight at 'em or a little ahead?"

"A little ahead, to be sure," replied Ratke, and, laying
down his knife and fork, he gave a discourse of five
minutes on the principles of absolute and relative motion.

"There, Wingscheut," exclaimed Brown," the reason
you didn't hit the quail was because you aimed straight
at her."

"Tat ain't te reason at all," answered a tall German
with dark hair and a fringe of whiskers running underneath
his chin." I aim't chust as you tolt me an' tat's
te reason I titn't hit 'im."

"Will," asked the major, "did you take good care of
Taylor?"

"I fed him and curried him off," replied Archer, the
man whom Ratke addressed.

"Yes," said the German, in the loud tone he had previously
used, "unt, if it hatn't a peen for me, you
vootn't a hat no Taylor."

"How is that, Wingscheut?" queried the major.

"Vell, you see," began Wingscheut, "las' night I vass
sleepin' in te clup-house. Unt, chust apout tvelf o'clock,
I heert te parn toor co skveak. Vell, I know provitin' te
toor co skveak, somepoty pe tere. Vell, I sit up. Unt I
co out py te tool-house. Ven te toor stop, I stop. Vell,
ven te toor co skveak, I co on. Pimepy te toor go
skveak acin, unt two tam horse-tiefs, tey come out vith
Taylor. Unt tey vass pic fellers, piccern ole Chon
Tafis.

"Vell, ten I come out from te tool-house. Unt I
catched poth of 'em hiplock, von on von hip unt von on
te otter. Unt I trowet 'em. Unt I pountet 'em till tey
hat te sorest faces. Provitin' you hatn't a peen asleep so
sount as you couldn't vake, you voot a heert 'em yell."

"Why didn't you hold 'em when you had 'em?" asked
Jake Sheppard, the oldest and most trusty of the hands.

"Vell, you see," answered Wingscheut, "Taylor he gits
avay. Unt he runs up te roat. Unt I titn't vant to lose
a horse vat vass vorth a tousan' tollars for two tam
horsetiefs vat vass goot for notting at all. So I coes on
after Taylor. Provitin' you ton't pelieve me, I can show you
vere tey lay."

"Wingscheut give 'em sore faces, for I saw him," whispered
a solemn-looking young man from the lower end of the table.

Every one present listened to this confirmation of
Wingscheut's doubtful veracity.

"Vell, you see," continued Daggett, the voiceless young
man, mocking the German's peculiar accent, "Vingscheut
unt me, ve kilt te tam horse-tiefs, unt ve took teir scalps.
Unt four more tam horse-tiefs, tey come up to git Taylor.
Unt Vingscheut catched two of 'em hiplock. Unt I
catched two of 'em hiplock. Unt ve kilt 'em. Unt ve
took teir scalps. Unt ve vent on to te svamp. Unt ve
fount sixteen more tam horse-tiefs. Unt ve kilt 'em. Unt
ve took teir scalps. Unt, provitin' you ton't pelieve it,
ve can show you te scalps."

When Wingscheut had mastered his disgust and an immense
mouthful of beefsteak, he said:

"Provitin' I vass such a liar as tat, I voot crawl off in
a holler loc unt tie."

"How do you get along with the one-man saw, Jake?"
queried the major.

"Back aches like time," answered Sheppard, drawing
his hand along his spine.

"That is strange," observed Ratke. "The one-man
saw is certainly a great saving of labor. It allows you,
instead of stooping over, or dropping your hands by your
side, to push toward the log straight from the shoulder.
The motory power is in the muscles of the shoulder and
upper arm; and this power, the hand and the saw, should
be as nearly as possible in a straight line. The common
cross-cut, as it is worked, with the hands on a level with
the hips, is a lever of the third class, power in the center,
fulcrum at one end and weight at the other. In this lever
there is a gain of motion and a corresponding loss of
power. But, as to the loss of motion in the one-man saw,
that can be easily made up by a swaying movement of the
body."

At the conclusion of the meal Wrengell and Montcalm
hired out for the summer, Wrengell getting twenty dollars
per month, and Montcalm, out of consideration for Ratke's
friendship for his father, receiving twenty-five dollars.
Montcalm stayed in the house, conversing with the major,
while the rest of the hired men, together with the vender
of medicine, or Panicky, went to the club-house.

This building was a two-story upright, whose dimensions
were thirty-two by thirty-six feet. On the ground
floor were three bedrooms and one larger apartment,
which contained a clock with an alarm, a table, a stove,
common chairs, rocking-chairs and all the furniture
necessary for the comfortable accommodation of a family.

Panicky surmised that Archer was bilious, that Sheppard
had lumbago, and assured Daggett that all he needed
for the complete restoration of his voice was a bottle of
Great American Panacea. By a series of harangues on
individual complaints, followed by an eloquent exordium,
he sold a bottle of the panacea to the hands, of whom all,
except Wingscheut, contributed equally to the purchase-money.

"Well, boys," said Jake Sheppard, "'m a-goin' to
work."

"Oh! there ain't no hurry," declared Archer; "the
major he wouldn't say anything if we didn't go for an
hour yet."

"Maybe he wouldn't say nothin'," replied Jake, "but
right's right, an' loafin' roun' when you're paid to work
ain't right."

The major sat watching the departure of his nieces,
who were about to drive his trotter, Taylor, to Break O'Day;
The girls were passing a small house not far from the swamp.

The preceding spring Philetus Takum had come to
Ratke with a piteous appeal for help. He had been
turned out of doors by his landlord, and left without
shelter for himself and his family.

The major, against the remonstrances of his household
erected a tenement house near the swamp and put it into
the possession of Takum. But . Philetus proved a disappointment
to his benefactor. Not only did he neglect
to pay the promised rent, but he circulated some annoying
untruths and many more annoying truths concerning
Ratke and his mortgaged estate.

The most valuable of Takum's personal property was a
mongrel shepherd dog which bore the name of Lina.

Next in value were two of her full-grown progeny, which
Philetus kept, for he had made many a solemn declaration
that he would not sell a pup for less than one dollar, and
he had been offered for the largest one only eighty-five
cents. Mrs. Grippin declared that the dogs ate eggs, and
that their master had an equal fondness for stolen
chickens.

Ratke was sitting, as was his wont in meditation, with
his left leg thrown over the arm of his rocking-chair, his
elbow on his knee and his head resting on his hand. Left
to himself, he plunged deeply into his philosophical
studies. His mind was clear, his absorption complete.
The principles of nature's mighty phenomena, enlarging
in scope and simplifying in form, passed one by one before
his vision with clearness and majesty; and, as he
thought, more than ever showed the harmony of natural
and mental philosophy.

He became conscious that something was drawing him
away from his delightful reverie. Some external circumstance
was tugging at his attention, which still clung
tenaciously to the theories which he was formulating.
Reluctantly he dropped his hand and threw his left leg
from the arm of the rocking-chair, when he heard the
voice of Mrs. Grippin calling from the chamber,

"James, James."

"Yes," returned the major, throwing his leg back to its
favorite position.

"James, James," cried Mrs. Grippin, more loudly than
before.

"All right," responded Ratke.

"But it isn't all right," said the housekeeper. "Come
up here, and you'll see that it's all wrong."

"I suppose I must go," thought the major. "Maria is
a continuous force, which, though exercising a slight
amount of influence per unit of time, in the lapse of concrete
time brings to bear a stress, the total amount of
which is enormous."

When he entered the chamber, Mrs. Grippin was standing
on a box by a north window, from which she was
endeavoring to obtain a view of the woods where the men
were at work.

"I can't see many of them," she said. "There is the
new man you like so well with the one-man saw. See
how he has to pull! It looks as though it would break
his back. He's got that swaying motion of the body you
tell so much about. I guess nobody would pull that thing
through a log without swaying the body."

"If that is all you want of me," remarked the major,
"I will go down."

"I think some of the men are shirking," said Mrs.
Grippin. "The woods are in the way so I can't see them.
You'd better go down where they are."

"I do not like to appear suspicious of them," the major
remonstrated. "Does it not please you to know that
others have confidence in you?"

"Yes, confidence in everybody," answered Mrs. Grippin;
"that's the trouble with you. Men consult their own
interest and they don't work hard for other folks unless
they have to."

"Why," ejaculated Ratke, "you are advocating the
principles of 'Elementa Philosophica de Cive.'"

"What do I care what you call it?" returned Mrs.
Grippin." I tell you, you can't trust folks in that way
without watching them."

"Bolder yet!" exclaimed the major. "Now you are
branching off on the Leviathan. I never thought you
would be a Hobbist, Maria."

"Do I have any more hobbies than you do," furiously
retorted the housekeeper; "you, with your nonsense that
nobody else can stand? I'd talk about hobbies."

"No, no, Maria," mildly expostulated the major. "A
Hobbist means---"

"I don't care what it means," interrupted Mrs. Grippin.
"James Ratke, if you don't go down there I won't get a
morsel of dinner for your men. Now, you can understand.
You can do just as you like."

"I can go for the sake of peace," said the major, with
a sigh.

When he started from the house, he was looking over
the tops of some tamaracks at the right of his destination,
which he meant to reach by means of the path leading to
the woods. Now it is unlikely that anything in the tamaracks
interested him, if at that time he was conscious of
their existence. Whatever the cause of his abstraction,
it had the effect of taking him far out of his intended
course. Nor was he aware of the deviation until he was
confronted by the thick growth of bushes, which, to enter,
he had to part with his hands. Suspending temporarily
his meditations, he came upon a path which ran trans-
versely through the shrubs, and which crossed at right
angles the one which he had intended to follow.

He proceeded along this path and stopped near a
broken tree whose upper portion, lying on the ground,
was hidden from him by the standing stub. Glancing
around and satisfying himself that he was not observed
he said slowly and emphatically,

"Proposition I.: The will of man has the power of
independent decision.

"Proposition II. : All external forces acting upon the
will are persuasive and not coercive." Here the major
paused and spatted his hands with great emphasis.

"Proposition III. : Whenever in---"

There was a rustling in the bushes followed by a succession
of very rapid and heavy blows from an ax. Going
around the stub, the major came upon Archer, who was
working at a rate which, had it been maintained, would
soon have cut down the patch of grubs so circumscribing
to the observations of Mrs. Grippin. It is impossible to
tell which one of the two was most embarrassed, the hired
man who had been sleeping on the fallen tree or his employer
who had been caught in what would generally be
considered a very foolish soliloquy.

Each felt that he had drawn the unpleasant attention
of his companion, and each consequently gave no heed
to the weakness of the other.

The major was the first to speak.

"You are knocking them down at a great rate. Will."

"Yes," answered Archer, springing toward a sapling,
which he felled at a few tremendous strokes.

"I would not heat myself too much," protested the
major. "There are other days coming."

"Got to earn our money," returned Archer, rushing
at another sapling.

"It seems to me," remarked the major, "that one
making such violent exertions as you are would be
encumbered by two coats and a jacket."

"Ain't had time to take 'em off yet," explained Archer,
as he threw aside his superfluous clothing. "Whew, but
it's warm!"

"I think I will go over where the boys are," observed
the major. "I only hear one saw there."

Archer, clearing his throat, struck up a fragment of a
song, whose pitch to the end was not more than a note
higher or lower than the one with which it commenced.

    "There was a man in days of old,
    He had a daughter as I've been told;
    And this daughter, she had a lover
    Who was not liked much by her mother."

At the conclusion of the doggerel strain, the woods were
ringing with life. A saw vibrated more energetically than
the one which Ratke had first heard, and several axes
were swung so rapidly as to produce almost a clatter.

"Right at it," remarked the major, as he neared the
spot where Brown and Daggett were sawing. "I see
that there are a great many ergs of work in my men."

Daggett's hard sawing, by which he had sought to lull
the major's suspicion, resulted in a fit of violent coughing,
and he was obliged to seat himself on a log and wait until
the paroxysm had passed.

"That is a bad cough, boy," said the major, "and you
are making it worse by getting heated."

"Oh, I'm all right," returned Daggett.

"No, you are in a bad condition," contradicted the
major." I insist that you take a more moderate gait. I
do not wish you to exhaust your energy before the
commencement of the summer's work. I must go up where
Trace is now."

"Hanged if I ain't ashamed," commented Daggett,
when the major had gone out of hearing. "Here we've
been playing off all we could, and the first thing we know
he comes around and tells us to go slower. I half believe
that, if I was well, I'd pitch in and work decent for the
old fellow."

"Oh, no, you wouldn't," returned Brown. "You
wouldn't like that any better than you do now. We
didn't have much warning, did we? Will got asleep. He
must of. An' it wasn't the square thing to do."

"No, it wasn't," affirmed Daggett, forgetting his
resolution to be industrious. "We'll get even with him for
that. Go up and tell him the captain demands his immediate
presence."

Archer, whose craving for sleep had been nearly satisfied
by indulgence, was not loth to leave his position as
sentinel. Such a summons was usually the forerunner of
sport, and he believed, from the direct manner in which
Daggett had sent for him, that, for the coming amusement,
he was not to pay the reckoning.

But the discontented looks of the men gave token that
they were not in the best of humor, while by their frequent
glances toward him he was warned that he was the
object of their dissatisfaction.

"Well, boys," he called out, "has the old man gone?
I done my duty as a sentinel, didn't I ? I warned you."

"Yes, you did warn us," said Daggett in a whisper
which was almost vocalization, "after the boss had got
here. That was a great way to do."

"I didn't see him," explained Archer, "until he got
right onto me. And the first thing I knew I heard him
getting off some of his philosophy trash."

"You vass sleepin'," asserted Wingscheut. "Tat vass
a mean trick. Provitin' I cootn't vake up a little vile, I
voot co to pet."

"Take him to the guard-house," ordered Daggett.

Archer was seized, and, despite his struggles and
threats, thrown to the ground, when the men began to
cover him with brush. Whenever he attempted to rise,
he was pushed back; and, as soon as he threw aside a
bush, it was succeeded by another. So, realizing the
uselessness of further resistance, he lay still and was
at once completely hidden by a quantity of limbs.

"Helloa, boys, here comes the major!" exclaimed
Daggett. "Lay low, Will, till he goes. It won't be
long."

"That rate would pile all the brush there is here in a
short time," remarked the major, as he stood among the
men. "It is a good plan, too, to complete the work as
you go. Here are some limbs which have lain so long
that they have been grown over by sod. Pile on those
old poles while you are about it."

Thereupon, to Daggett's delight and Archer's dismay,
the major brought a log larger than any of the hands
could carry, and placed it upon the brush-heap, which
was already large.

"Have any of you a match?" inquired the major. "I
believe I will fire this heap."

The men looked at each other in alarm.

"No, we haven't," answered Daggett.

"Why, I have one," said Ratke. "Now let us get
some of these dry leaves together and we may make it
burn."

"It will not go," remarked the major, as the flame
flickered and died out. "If I had another match, I could
start it. "Now, boy, come up and get something for
that cough."

"Oh, I don't want anything for that," returned Daggett."
That will be all right when it comes warm weather."

"We must attend to it now," urged Ratke.

"No, I guess I won't go," said Daggett, feeling very
uneasy at this manifestation of his employer's kindness.

"What, mutiny?" exclaimed the major, putting his
arm around the young man and dragging him along.
"You see that you have no option in the matter."

Daggett noticed that the major made no remark about
Archer's disappearance. He had a suspicion that the
philosopher, even when he was showing him such marks
of kindness, understood the faithlessness of him and his
fellows. Looking back as he was passing through the
shrubs, he saw a head of wavy black hair emerging from
a brush-heap and a fist shaken viciously toward him, but
he kept the discovery to himself.


CHAPTER IV.
A CIRRUS BECOMES A NIMBUS.

"Did you get me any letters, Manie?" asked Ratke
as he met his nieces, who were coming from the barns.

"Two of them," answered Manie.

"Maria," said Ratke, when they were in the dining-room,
"get Mark something for his cough. I am going into the
sitting-room to read my letters."

The first missive which the major opened bore a Washington
postmark and read as follows:


    Washington, D. C, March 4, 187-
    Mr. J. Ratke,
   
    Break o'Day, Mich.
    Dear Sir:-- As the commissioner expresses doubt concerning
    the practical value of your invention, I find it is difficult
    to obtain a patent. I must receive fifty dollars before I
    proceed further.
   
    Respectfully yours,
   
    F. B. Sackett.


"The leech!" muttered the major; "he would gorge
himself with my substance. But let me once get my
Jerusalem wagon started, and I will bid defiance to patent
lawyers and creditors. What do I care for the few drops
the insect gets if their place will soon be supplied by
a liberal infusion which will send vigor through my
veins?"

The contents of the second letter are given below.


    Jackson, Mich., March 4, 187-.
    Mr. J. Ratke,
   
    Break o'Day, Mich.
    Dear Sir: We spoke to Mr. Green about the matter which you
    mentioned. He says he cannot postpone the foreclosure of the
    mortgage a day.
   
    Yours respectfully,
   
    Collins & Joy.


The effect of the two communications was to produce
an unwonted depression in the major's spirits. It
was as if a cloud of whose existence he had been not
ignorant, but to which he had been inattentive, had
suddenly by a warning bolt made him give heed to its
proximity.

No matter in which direction he turned, he could not
find a way out of the perplexing difficulty. Schemes
which were his hope, his very life, demanded money for
their furtherance. His produce was sold, his pocket-book
empty, his credit gone. He realized his situation; and, in
the distance, he felt he saw, approaching, calamities which
would destroy his dearest projects and involve in ruin
himself and his household.

Mrs. Grippin interrupted these miserable reflections by
saying,

"He's in here, William Henry Harrison, if you want to
see him!"

The visitor was William Henry Harrison Hibbard,
whose first three names had been given him at his birth,
applied in sport during his boyhood, and used through
habit when he had reached man's estate. William Henry
Harrison had fits; and these fits had reduced his mind,
if not to imbecility, to a state of intelligence considerably
below mediocrity. The spring before, the Republicans
of Jefferson township had, for want of better amusement,
nominated him for constable; and the Democrats had so
far fallen in with the joke that, though they had a large
majority, the half-wit was elected.

William Henry Harrison was tall and slender, his mouth
was large, and his hair was light The most conspicuous
part of his raiment was a long, loose ducking jacket which
was belted tightly about the waist, and whose lower edges
flared out from his body like an umbrella top. As this
was his most expensive article of clothing, and as he never
wore it except on important occasions, it was by the local
wits called his official coat.

"Well, William Henry Harrison," inquired the major,
"do you have a great deal to do as constable?"

"No, not 'nawful sight," answered William Henry
Harrison.

"That was a fine run you made last spring," observed
Ratke. "I believe you beat Johnny Hemp?"

"Yes, I lick 'im. I run 'way 'head."

"Did you ever arrest anybody or serve a summons? "
inquired Ratke.

"Dono, guess not," replied the half-wit.

"Probably not," said the major, half to himself. "In
the machine of law you are a pinion, whirled by the belts
and pulleys of courts, which are, in turn, propelled by the
engine of legislation. But you are satisfied with your
condition, and that is more than can be said of many who
think themselves your superiors. Content, as you are, with
your lot, you may as well be a pinion as an engine."

"Yes," remarked William Henry Harrison, "engine
might bust."

"By George!" exclaimed the major, "but there is wisdom
in that. The solid iron pinion can be broken only
by external forces, while the hollow engine may, itself,
generate the power by which it is rent. Likewise, the
humble mind escapes those internal conflicts which bring
ruin to some of the mightier intellects. William Henry
Harrison, that, is the wisest remark I have heard in a
month."

Upon this unusual compliment, the author of the saying
so highly praised grinned, covered his mouth with his
hand and looked steadily at Ratke for some minutes.

The major, tiring of the half-wit's scrutiny, had recourse
to a stratagem which seldom fails to remind a forgetful
guest of the object of his visit.

"Let me take your hat," he said.

"No," replied William Henry Harrison, taking his hand
from his mouth. "I no stay, Misser Green, he git mad."

"So you stay with Green yet," observed Ratke.

"Yes," answered the half-wit; "Misser Green, he git
me new straw hat I give you this paper."

"Oh, it is a paper you are serving on me!" exclaimed
Ratke. "Make Green give you your regular fee, and tell
him that constables are not obliged to take straw hats in
payment for the performance of legal duties."

The document proved to be a summons which had been
issued by Justice Lyman Sparks, in behalf of Josiah Green,
who had purchased a note due the Buckeye Manufacturing
Co. of Marlboro, Ohio.

"Go back to Josiah Green," said the major, "and tell
him that you performed your errand. Tell him that I
bound up his financial wounds when the priest and the
Levite passed him by. Tell him I lent him money when
his place was mortgaged for its full value, and no one else
would trust him. Tell him he owes me yet for a cow and
wheat which I let him have when his family was sick."

"I can't 'member so much," said William Henry Harrison,
alarmed at Ratke's vehemence. "Misser Green he whip.
Oh! whip big."

"Halt," ordered the major, as the unique constable
moved toward the door. "You have been a faithful
officer and you have earned your supper. You must eat
with me. Instead of making Green mad, it will please
him to think he is relieved from the expense of feeding
you. Maria rang the saw before you served the summons."

"But," said the half-wit, "I can't 'member that you say
when mad."

"You need not try to remember it," was the major's
answer." You could do so if you could once comprehend
it, for you have no doubt a preponderance of memory
over the reflectives. Your mind is not brilliant, and,
when by accident you stumble upon a sensible expression,
it shines as forcibly as a bolt of lightning from the
darkened sky at midnight. Do you understand what I say ?"

"No," answered William Henry Harrison.

"It is as well that you do not," commented Ratke. "I
would rather you would not understand all I say, because
I want to talk, and I do not wish to hurt your feelings.
Now, I will tell you something which you can understand,
William Henry Harrison. To-day you have been a
smarter man than I have."

William Henry Harrison was so pleased with Ratke's
approbation that, at supper, he endeavored to obtain more
of it by delivering some witty speeches. Disappointed in
receiving encouragement to continue his remarks, he allowed
his own appreciation of his sagacity to be visible
in several prolonged grins, the last of which was frozen
by one of Mrs. Grippin's frowns.

After the meal, as he stood irresolutely in the sitting-room,
he remarked, "I have fit purty soon. I tell."

"I will tell Trace to hitch up a horse and take you
home," said Ratke, hastily passing to the dining-room.

The major, returning, found William Henry Harrison
on the floor, with his limbs alternately contracting and
expanding to their utmost capacity. The half-wit's eyes
were rolled back, his face contorted, his figure writhing
and twisting and his lips covered with froth. On the
floor about him were the fragments of a large mirror,
which had cut his hands in several places.

When William Henry Harrison had finished his first
and last official visit, Ratke observed, "The Buckeye
Company agreed to wait a year for that note. I wonder
that so careful a man as Green should send such an officer
as William Henry Harrison."

"You needn't wonder," returned Mrs. Grippin. "He
did it to be mean, just to tantalize you. If it ain't legal,
he'll send another man with it. Oh, I would like to talk
to Si Green a minute. I'd like to tell him some things.
If it hadn't been for you, he'd have starved and his whole
family. You can get mad if you want to, Nora. I know
he's your aunt's husband. But that don't make any difference.
I should think you'd be proud of him, a man
that's got rich making cider. He's done more harm in
this neighborhood than he could do good if he should live to
be as old as Methuselah. Him, a member of the church,
making cider and selling it to get men drunk."

"I wonder how he found out about the note," said the
major.

"It's that Phleet Takum," replied Mrs. Grippin. "He
keeps posted on your business better than you do. He
has done a great deal to destroy your credit."

"It is strange," remarked the major, "how a man of
Philetus' ability can do so much harm. I can explain it in
no way except by the law of virtual velocities: 'Power,
multiplied by the distance through which it moves, equals
weight, multiplied by the distance through which it moves. '
To accomplish a given result, then, a man of half average
ability must move through twice the space, or, in other
words, bestir himself twice as much as an ordinary man.
Here comes Trace. I must see how he left William Henry
Harrison."

Montcalm informed Ratke that he had left William
Henry Harrison at Green's gate, apparently none the worse
for his fit.

"Do you know he is an officer of the law?" queried
the major, as he was unhitching a tug.

"No, is he?" ejaculated Montcalm.

"The Republicans and part of the Democrats of Jefferson
township," said Ratke, "disgraced themselves by
electing that poor idiot boy to the office of constable.
Today he made his first official visit."

"I am surprised," commented Montcalm.

"That is all I can tell you," said Ratke quickly, feeling
that he had already said too much. "To succeed in
business a man must bridle his tongue. If he gives a
knowledge of his affairs to the gossips, he places them
before a double convex lens, which may converge the
heat of public scrutiny to melt his gold, as that metal is
sometimes melted at a powerful focus."

"I have no wish to pry into your affairs," replied
Montcalm. "On the contrary, I am opposed to receiving
from you any confidence which you may afterward regret."

"This much I can tell you. Trace," said Ratke. "The
constable's errand was not to perform a duty connected
with criminal law."

"I felt assured of that," replied Montcalm. "You
will never be suspected of crime. I will care for this
horse if you will tell me how much grain to feed him."

It often happens that a skillful investigator will by
professed indifference lull suspicions of his art and
extract much information which by any other means he
would be unable to obtain. This is what was done by
Montcalm. Ratke thought that he had been boorish with
the son of his old comrade. He would atone for his
surliness by a partial explanation.

"This is a civil matter," he remarked, "a little debt
which I owe and which I thought would not be presented
for collection in a year."

"You have been hardly fair with me," said Montcalm.

"You have not allowed me to do the chores enough to
learn them. How much grain do you feed this horse?"

"Never mind the horse," exclaimed Ratke impatiently.
"You do not seem to like to listen to me, Trace. I have
been sued by Green. He has bought a note of twenty
dollars against me. Not that it is anything serious, but
some other things unite with it to make up a combination
which promises me trouble. The farm is sold on the
mortgage in July."

"Your Jerusalem wagon ought to help you out," said
Montcalm.

"Oh," replied Ratke. "If I could get my wagon into
the market, I could pay for my farm. If I could pay for
my farm, I could get my wagon into the market. Both
are wedged in the narrow passage of fatality, each waiting
to be extricated by help from the other. To-day I received
a letter from my patent lawyer, stating that he
must have fifty dollars or he could not proceed further
with the business. I bought a cow of Osborne for thirty
dollars and I agreed to get her in two weeks. I can muster
not more than twenty-five dollars with which to meet these
sums, I own a farm, the Barton hundred and sixty,
which is east of the county line and which is unencumbered.
I might mortgage that, but I hate to do it."

"Is that the extent of your trouble?" asked Montcalm.
"I can lend you one hundred dollars. Last week I got
my quarterly dividend on a one-thousand-dollar share of
stock."

"One thousand dollars!" cried the major. "One
thousand dollars surely cannot bring a quarterly dividend
of one hundred dollars."

"The quarterly dividend is one hundred and fifty," said
Montcalm.

"In what kind of stock have you invested ?" queried
Ratke.

"That I am not at liberty to tell," responded Montcalm.
"Every member of the company is bound to keep its
operations secret."

"Get out of it as soon as you can," advised Ratke.
"It is fraudulent, or there would be no need of
secrecy."

"I will do so at once," acquiesced Montcalm. "At the
next quarter I will withdraw my capital."

"I am suspicious of such organizations," said Ratke.
"Did you ever hear of Nijni Novgorod oats?"

"I never did," replied Montcalm.

"That," pursued Ratke, "was the most successful
swindle which was ever worked on the farmers of
Michigan. For every bushel of grain which the company
sold to a farmer, it received ten dollars and agreed to sell
for him the next year twice that quantity at the same
price, minus the agent's fee of twenty-five per cent.
Thus, for each bushel of grain the farmer bought, he gave
ten dollars and got fifteen. He was bound by agreement
not to sell the oats for less than they cost him. Jackson
County went wild over the speculation. As the Nijni
Novgorod fellows gave credit and took notes for pay,
every one had means to invest.

"After harvest the agents were not to be found.
Then the crisis came. The notes had passed into the
hands of those whom the law calls innocent purchasers
and, of course, had to be paid. Men put their property
out of their hands to avoid payment. Jasper Smith, a
prosperous farmer who had been defrauded to the amount
of twelve hundred dollars, hung himself in his own barn.
Yet this lesson, severe as it was, did not educate the
people. They would seize with avidity the next chance
to be swindled."

"I will get out of the company at the next quarter,"
assured Montcalm. "By that time I shall have doubled
my investment."

"Oh, I would not be too fast," said the major. "But
they will never draw me into the scheme. I would like
to have one of their agents come here. I would give him
a snub which he would not soon forget."

"The company will not attempt to inveigle you," replied
Montcalm. "It does not send out agents. It wishes
to be composed of those only who are now its members."

"How clannish!" Ratke exclaimed, "to want to keep
a good thing all to itself. I have no patience with such
companies. You can tell me something of its nature
Trace?"

Not without a permit from the president and directors,"
answered Montcalm. "I must keep my promise
of secrecy, even though I offend my father's friend and
mine."

"Break your promise to no one," said Ratke. "But
you can write to them for permission to impart the
knowledge I wish?"

"They may not like to let you know," suggested Montcalm.
"Nevertheless, I will write."

"I will risk it," replied the major. "They would give
me permission to join if I desired to do so. Now, I have
no wish to join you. But you write and ask them if I
may. I will wager a box of cigars that they will accept
me as a member."

"Done," said Montcalm," and I will show you their
answer. I am certain of my cigars, however. They will
admit no new members."

"They are very exclusive," commented the major.
"Are they afraid of contamination from the common
people? None of them have better blood than I. My
ancestor, Johann Ratke, was a grandson of Martin
Gerard, the uncle of Erasmus. What king of the fourteenth
century wielded a more powerful and more enduring
scepter than the philosopher of Rotterdam?"


CHAPTER V.
RAMOTH GILEAD PREDICTED.

The next Sunday was cloudy and cold. The raw west
wind swept along stray flakes of snow in almost horizontal
lines. Saturday Wingscheut had hailed the sight of a
chipmunk as a certain omen of immediate spring; and this
bleak Sabbath had followed, as if the very elements
delighted to disprove the predictions of the false prophet.

For six successive days Mrs. Grippin had been indulging
in regret and blame for their absence from church the
previous Sunday: regret for the rain which had furnished
an excuse for non-attendance, blame for the inconsistency
of the boastful soldier and philosopher, who bragged of
indifference to red-hot cannon balls, and yet was afraid of a
few little drops of cold water.

For these trials the major had his consolation. It was
the common lot of philosophers to be censured and
abused. Did not Guericke suffer from popular ignorance
and prejudice? Was not Galileo assailed and even
obliged to retract his theories? And had not Socrates
his Xantippe, the prototype of Mrs. Grippin?

The church, which was of good size, considering its
country location, stood on a slight elevation, about 
three-fourths of a mile west of the Ratke dwelling. Between
the edifices the ground curved and merged in a miniature
valley which occupied most of the distance. Southwest
of the house of worship were the farm buildings and cider
mill of Josiah Green, who held the mortgage on the
major's estate.

The pastor, a man quick to discover motes and beams
in the eyes of his congregation, and ready to grab at the
offending particle or bulk the instant of its discovery, had
prepared a philippic for the special benefit of Green.

His text was Romans fourteenth chapter and twenty-first
verse: "It is good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink
wine, nor anything whereby thy brother stumbleth, or is
offended, or is made weak."

Starting from the premise that each one, in a measure,
molds the character of his neighbor, he launched boldly
into the theme of man's responsibility for the conduct of
his fellows.

"What is it that we are to refrain from doing ? Anything,
remember, anything, by which our brother stumbleth,
or is offended, or is made weak.

"That which injures our brother maybe quite harmless
to ourselves. Nevertheless, if it diminishes his virtue or
his faith, we should avoid it, even though the degree of
decline be so slight that it is visible only by Him on
whom that faith is fixed.

"One of God's people, if he were not in the trammels of
Church discipline, might be placed in such circumstances
that he could dance without moral degeneration. But
if, thereby, his brother is led into bad company, if
possible converts avoid a faith whose votaries seem insincere,
it is his duty to lop off the pleasure, even though it be
dear as his right hand.

"Card-playing could be indulged in without sin, provided
we were sure that no sinful consequences would follow
the game. There is no contamination in the pictures
or the card-board. The queen of clubs does not look
wholly depraved. The king of hearts, though his appearance
is not prepossessing, is too lazy and inefficient to be a
power for evil. Bibles which carry a knowledge of the
Saviour to the center of barbarism, are made from the
same material as spades and aces. But for all that,
card-playing entices to evil. Card-playing should be
tolerated in no Christian or moral home.

"Who will say that there is evil in a glass of cider which
is guaranteed never to touch the lips of man? Yet, cider
is the greatest curse which this community has ever seen.
More, than beer, more than whisky, more than the horse-thieves,
against whom so many anathemas have been breathed, cider
is bringing its awful harvest of pain and crime. But in
this congregation, --- for I see them now, ---
are men in whose cellars are cider barrels, whose sons,
following their father's lead, descend the stairs, turn the
faucet and change themselves into receptacles of the potion
which would make fiends of angels. Ay, brethren, I
see those who manufacture the damning beverage
poured into the throats of topers and of boys now unpolluted,
to lure them on to places of infamy, to leave them
helplessly wallowing in the mire of debauchery and whiskey,
for whisky is the natural successor of cider. And these
men, together with their victims, are descending to the
lake of fire and brimstone, not on a stream of pure water
reflecting the sunlight from its sandy bed, but along a
river of yellow cider reeking with the smell of rotten
pomace and of dead men's bones."

The rural preacher supported the above denunciation
by awkward gestures and a high degree of earnestness.
Green's manner, while he was receiving in addition to this
chastisement the glances of most of the congregation, was
less perturbed than usual. He was a spare, nervous man
of medium height. It was his custom in church often to
look out of the window, to cross and recross his legs and
to show other signs of restlessness.

On this occasion, leaning his elbows on the back of the
pew in front of him, he looked steadily at the preacher
He appeared heartily to indorse the sermon and to have
no suspicion that it was intended for him; and, when he
received a bolt more crushing than its predecessor, he
smiled, as if approving the condemnation which was to be
meted out to some other man.

In class meeting he rose as he had done nearly
Sunday for a dozen years, said a few words hastily, and
sat down with the air of one who rejoices that he has
finished an unpleasant duty.

Montcalm was invited to a position in the choir as
he and Manie sang from the same book, many a rustic
swain shared the jealousy of Wrengell.

After class meeting Lyman Sparks arose to make "a
sejestion."

"There's one thing we forgot about, brothers and sisters
the donation to Brother Osborne's. We ain't made any
pervision for the needcessties o'the 'casion. Of course,
there'll be some needcessties, an' we ought to make some
pervision for 'em. I motion that we have a committee
o'three to pervide for the 'casion."

When the motion had been passed, Mr. Sparks again
arose.

"I sejest the names o' Brother Osborne, Brother Green
an', well, mebbe I've said enough. I don't want to have
too much to say about this thing. Somebody else sejest
another name."

Sparks was chosen as the last committee man, the
benediction was pronounced and the people dispersed.

"I'd like to see Lime Sparks tell me what to cook,"
said Mrs. Grippin, as she was on her way home, "or Si
Green. If they come poking their noses around where
I'm cooking, they'll get out, that's all."

In the afternoon, while the rest of the family were out
at church, Nora entertained Fred Loomis, the clerk in Dr.
Rorus' drug-store at Break o'Day. Loomis was stylishly
attired. He had town manners, a slight frame, and an
equally slight mustache. On matters of dress and general
deportment, he trusted his judgment implicitly, but, in
conversation which required the higher attributes of mind,
he felt his weakness. Often, when he thought a remark
or circumstance amusing, he suppressed a laugh until one
of his associates demonstrated by example the propriety
of its indulgence.

When evening came, this village dandy, Nora, Manie
and Montcalm were in the parlor.

The clerk and Nora on a couch whispered and giggled,
while Manie and Montcalm, in a further corner of the
room, maintained less secrecy and more dignity.

"That is a fine likeness," observed Montcalm, pointing
to a portrait of a man who had a broad, high brow, large,
expressive eyes and a stern, intellectual face. "Every
boy knows Senator Mallard's picture. One can almost
think that he sees the words of his last great speech issuing
from those firm-set lips. He is a recognized champion
in debate."

"Yes," said Manie. "He and Uncle James were classmates
at college. He has visited us several times since
I can remember. Uncle James is a Democrat, you know,

Every time Senator Mallard comes they engage in a hot
political discussion, which Uncle James begins, unmindful
of his previous defeats. Uncle James says he is the only
man who ever conquered him fairly in argument."

"Conquest by him is no disgrace," returned Montcalm.
"It is the common fate of those who oppose him. Will
you please favor us with a song or some instrumental
music? A love of the beautiful is the very origin of music,
and it is what you have shown in the decoration of this
room. The cheap and the gorgeous you have eschewed,
while you have drawn liberally from unpretentious and
intrinsic beauty. The picture at the right of the mirror
is an illustration of my statement. Here we have, well
portrayed, a pleasing scene in rural life, a fine house and
barn, with mountains looming up in the background.
See how neat everything is about the place."

"Everything is unnaturally neat and proper," replied
Manie. "The horses' heads are too high. The sheep
are too large, and that cow looks as if she were posing for
a picture. Nobody ever saw so square and high a load of
hay as that one going into the barn. The man on it is
standing so straight that he will bump his head unless
he stoops. The artist could have improved the picture
by tipping over one of the lightning-rods and tearing down
a gate."

"It need not show slovenliness to be accurate," Montcalm
answered;" I acknowledge your superiority in logic,
but I still contend that I am right."

"Allow me to give you a compliment in return," said
Manie. "You would make an excellent lightning-rod
agent. Every man you met would have fat hogs, blooded
cattle or smart children. Get your note-book and I will
give you a list of flattering remarks which would insure a
sale.

"Compliment one, Intelligent farmer. Compliment two,
Large chickens. Compliment three, Smart children. But,
if your pleasing speeches are addressed to a lady, do not
have them.

"Compliment one, Robust and healthful. Compliment
two, Fragile and delicate."

"I am wounded by the lash of sarcasm," said Montcalm. "Each
neighborhood has its local satirist, pouring
out MacFlecknoes and Dunciads on hapless Shadwells
and Gibbers. This character, varying in sagacity and
bitterness, according to training and original talent, native
cheerfulness and the world's usage, is a necessity to progress.
No great reform is accomplished without his help.
Whenever society moves slowly in its duty, he strikes the
hindmost; and though the laggard may not afterward be
found in the front of the procession, he is apt to abandon
the position of rear-guard to another, who in turn finds it
an inconvenient and dangerous post. But I will not class
you with the common satirist, for you have shown more
refined talent than he. You have been taking lessons of
Pope, Juvenal and Swift."

"Now, you are losing your art, Mr. Montcalm," said
Manie. "First, you ascribe to me the most delicate sensibility,
and now you class me with as vulgar a satirist as
Swift. Do you think I would write the, 'Tale of a Tub'?
I am glad that, if I have not the genius to compose
the Dunciad, neither have I the vindictive spirit which
prompted it. You should memorize your flattering statements,
and then they would not conflict."

"Now, I am hit sorely and wantonly," said Montcalm.
"How often have I been proceeding carelessly, if not unwittingly,
in error when I felt a smarting, agonizing blow;
and I knew that I had been struck by that scourge of
scourges, that whip of scorpions, the lash of the local satirist.
Then, I sometimes encased myself in the armor of
reasoning and excuse, and, confident in my protecting
mail, took up my old line of march. But a certain man (or
woman) drew a bow at a venture, and behold, Ahab was
smitten between the joints of the harness."

"If Ahab would avoid the fatal arrow," returned Manie,
"he should shun the field of Ramoth Gilead, or, better
still, he should not make covenants with Ben-hadad."

"Make covenants with Ben-hadad?", said Montcalm,
nervously turning his head. "What does that mean?"

"Ahab did not enter into an offensive and defensive
alliance with Ben-hadad," Manie replied. "He merely
spared the life of the wicked Syrian when he had him in
his power. He who compromises with, or refuses to
attack error, commits the sin of Ahab; and he will meet
his punishment as surely as did the son of Omri."

"Then every man who temporizes with evil will meet a
bloody death?" queried Montcalm with a smile.

"You must not infer that," answered Manie. "As the
sin differs in some respects from that of Ahab, so in all
probability will the punishment. But he who permits the
perpetration of an evil which he can prevent will not be
held guiltless. To that man, in some way, in time or
eternity, Ramoth Gilead must come."

Montcalm saw that, whatever his ability in compliment,
Manie was more than his equal in argument, He determined
now to abandon the contest, which he would not so
long have continued had he not wished to give her the
flattering opinion of her own skill as a controversialist.

"Give Ahab a truce," he said. "The donation at Mr.
Osborne's is next Friday night. Mr. Sparks advised us
to make 'pervision for the needcessties o' the 'casion.'
My chief 'needcessty' is a companion for the evening.
May wicked Ahab presume to ask you to ride in his
chariot?"

"Oh! I'm a-going to have some fun!" exclaimed
Nora, jumping up and rushing to the sitting-room.

"What is she going to do?" asked Montcalm.

"Nobody knows what she is going to do," Manie answered.

In a few minutes Nora returned, bringing with her
Archer. The hired man, whose body was encased in a
blue coat with large brass buttons, strode into the room,
carrying his head and shoulders very erect.

"Good-evening, Mrs. Ratke," he said with a profound
bow.

Archer in his youth had been taught that a married
lady's proper title is Mrs.; and he had broadened this
definition until he made it embrace every member of the
sex, whether married or unmarried.

"Oh, Mr. Archer," said Nora, "we're so glad you've
come. We want you to sing for us."

"Well," responded Archer, tipping back his chair and
spreading the sides of his coat wide apart with his hands,
at the same time taking care that the brass buttons should
be conspicuous, "I don't pretend to be much of a singician,
but folks used to say I could sing."

"Of course you can sing," persisted Nora. "Good
singers do have to be urged so. Fred can't sing bass,
and Mr. Montcalm can't sing it, and so we want you to.
Now, Mr. Archer, don't make any more excuses, but go
right up and help them sing."

Manie much against her will went to the organ and assisted
Montcalm and Archer to sing "The Sweet By-and-By."

Archer, maintaining the same pitch throughout the
hymn, tapped the floor with his foot, bobbed his head
from side to side, and without any approach to a tune
rumbled away with all his might.

Nora's enjoyment of the scene was well-nigh perfect.
She clapped her hands, rolled over on the sofa and, but
for Archer's monotonous "By-and-By, By-and-By," would
certainly have been heard by him.

"Oh, that was splendid, Mr. Archer," she cried, when
the hymn was concluded. "I wish I could sing like that.
Now give us a song, please."

"What kind of a song, Mrs. Warfle?" Archer inquired.

"Something sentimental," answered Nora. "That's
what we would all like to hear."

Thus encouraged, Archer began to sing a narrative, most
of which on account of its tedious length must be briefly
told in prose.

    "Come listen to the awful tale,
    That in song I shall bewail,
    About a preacher's only son,
    And all for love he was undone.
    He was but eighteen years of age
    When in love he did engage."

When he was twenty years old, after receiving a call to
preach, he repeated his proposals of marriage to the young
lady.

    "But her people, they did object
    To him, because he had no prospect."

Her affections blighted, the maiden pined steadily away,
and an anxious friend made the following inquiry:

    "Madam, what makes you look so pale?
    Madam, what makes your colors fail?
    Your cheeks was once like roses red,
    And now they look as though you was dead.
    Your eyes was once as black as sloes.
    Now to the grave methinks they goes."

On this solicitation the maiden, telling the story of her
love, imparted a warning to those who interfere with affairs
of the heart, and at the close of the injunction gave
a wail of agony and expired. The parents, stricken with
grief at their loss, sent for the minister's son.

    "Then to the funeral he did go,
    Was dressed in black from top to toe.
    This noble young man took his bed,
    And in a week more he was dead."

With a voice alternating between a roar and a yell, the
singer told the moral to the tragedy in forty lines, four of
which are subjoined.

    "Now, all you people, far and near,
    To stop true love you should ever fear;
    For young folks parted sighs do heave.
    Sometimes they die and oft do grieve."

"Oh, dear! Oh, my! Oh, my! Oh, dear!" ejaculated
Nora, making no attempt to conceal her mirth while
the clerk, as he thought, very properly seconded, with
less effusiveness, her demonstrations of glee. "Oh!
that's awful good, Mr. Archer. That's splendid. Oh!
my! Oh, dear! 'Sometimes they die and oft do grieve.'
What! You're not going now, are you?"

"Yes, it's getting along towards bedtime," returned
Archer, whose perception, though dull, was still acute
enough to show him that he was being made the butt of
ridicule.

"It is too bad," said Manie, when Archer had gone.
"I am ashamed of you, Nora. You have no right to hurt
people's feelings in that way."

"Preach all you want to," retorted Nora.

"Won't you do an errand for me?" she asked, accosting
Archer, who had not yet taken his departure from the
house, and whose countenance suggested that he was in ill
humor from the treatment which he had received.

"Well?" answered the hired man gruffly.

"I wish you would tell Mr. Wrengell to come up here,"
said Nora.

"I'll see," returned Archer in a tone which showed that
he had no intention to oblige her.

"Oh, please, Mr. Archer," pleaded Nora. "I do so
want to see him. Tell him, and I'll remember it a long
while, and I'll think how good you was. Won't you, Mr.
Archer?"

"Well, yes," said Archer hesitatingly, "I'll tell him."

Wrengell was surprised at the summons which he received.
Without waiting to make some needed changes
in his apparel he started, and soon stood in the
dining-room, embarrassed and expectant.

"There are some young folks in the parlor," explained
Nora. "We want you to join us."

"Oh, I can't possibly."

"Yes, you can," said Nora, taking his sleeve and pulling
him gently along." There is nobody in the house that
will hurt you. Come on, now, without any more excuses."

"Don't you go into any of your nonsense, Nora," said
Mrs. Grippin, as they passed through the sitting-room.

The major without the knowledge of Mrs. Grippin had
placed in one of the parlor bedrooms a chair, the rounds
of which had been broken. Nora, quickly slipping into
the bedroom, brought out the superannuated piece of
furniture for Wrengell, who was too embarrassed to notice
the maneuver. At the instant he sat down, however, the
spreading chair legs and descending cane bottom warned
him of the insecurity of his position and compelled him to
bear most of the weight of his body on his legs.

"Won't you sing us a song, Mr. Wrengell?" said Nora
with a giggle, which was echoed by the clerk.

"I do not care to sing," answered Wrengell, now 
comprehending her motive in enticing him to the parlor.

"Oh, please, do sing us something sentimental," said
Nora, interspersing now and then a smothered laugh between
the words, "something about somebody that--that
died for--for love, you know."

"Sing something of your own selection," suggested
Manie, endeavoring by kindly encouragement to atone for
Nora's misdemeanor.

On hearing this invitation Wrengell came to the conclusion
that the company had entered into a conspiracy
to make him appear ridiculous; and his embarrassment
was quickly supplanted by anger.

"Thank you, I do not care to sing," he responded.

"Perhaps you will play for us," said Manie.

Springing to his feet, with such violence that the rickety
chair spread out its loose-jointed legs and squatted nearly
to the floor, Wrengell went quickly to the organ.

The instrument broke forth into a roar of wrath. It
seemed to bid defiance to the company, to tell them that
the man whom they had insulted was above and indifferent
to their sneers. Gradually the notes decreased in
volume and increased in rapidity, until the sounds appeared
almost to coalesce; yet not once did the fingers
of the player err in the selection of a key or appear to
move more swiftly than their normal gait.

Such a manifestation of proficiency where none was
expected filled the four auditors with astonishment.

Manie and Montcalm listened in admiration, Nora
opened her mouth in surprise, while the shallow clerk
glanced at her to ascertain if he were to grin again at
Wrengell's expense.

With exquisite modulation Wrengell changed the music
from anger to solemnity and from solemnity to pathos;
and he brought out with unusual distinctness that one
superiority of instrumental over vocal music, its
application to individual thought without the
circumscription of language.

A song beautiful in conception and glowing with power
often fails to produce an impression, because he for whom
it is rendered finds in it nothing which coincides with his
sympathies or experience. But he who hears a well-played
instrumental has no assurance that it was not composed for
the benefit of his special class. To the resigned sufferer
the solemn largissimo may be a strain of patient resignation,
while to the misanthrope it is the wail of hopeless
despair. The sparkling brillante, which animates one to
heroic deeds and lofty aims, fills another with dreams of
the revel and the debauch.

It was impossible to tell in what channel moved the
reflections of Manie and Montcalm, who, alone of those
present, were capable of appreciating the skill of the
musician. But whether they were impelled to noble or
to base purposes, they were moved, in no common degree,
by those finer variations, those nicer shades of expression
which distinguish the touch of the master from mere
agility and correctness of movement.

Wrengell rose from the organ with as much suddenness
as he had approached it, and, determined to show his
indifference to their opinions, he left the parlor, casting
back a look of contempt, which he meant to include every
person in the room. Passing through the sitting-room,
where the major and Mrs. Grippin were engaged in a
controversy, deliberate on the one side and furious on the
other, he went through the dining-room, the kitchen and
into the open air.

It was with dejection that Wrengell entered the chamber
of the club-house and seated himself on the only unoccupied
bed. The affront which had been given him in
the major's parlor was by no means the first which he had
been compelled to bear. From his infancy disgrace had
been his lot. He had been told the story of his drunken
parents, of his mother who was sent to the penitentiary,
of his father who wandered to a distant state, there to be
imprisoned for some offense the details of which were
forgotten but the commission of which was being frequently
recalled. Taken from a poorhouse at an early age by a
farmer, who was ever reminding him of the charity, he
strove manfully to repay the debt which, he fancied, he
owed. He was given severe tasks to perform; and the
story of his degradation was spread broadcast by the man
with whom he lived, to such an extent that he was publicly
shunned.

When he was unable to bear the exactions of his foster-father,
Wrengell left the shelter of his roof and turned his
attention to his neglected education. Working between
terms and studying nights, he made excellent progress;
and, at the time he commenced work for Ratke, he had
gone half through college and had taken the greater part
of a thorough musical course.

And this boy, without wealth, with a lineage so mean
that its very mention gave him shame, was proud, proud
as they who openly ignored him, proud as that greater
number who recognized his title to acquaintanceship, but
drew between him and them a barrier which, more felt
than seen, prevented the relations of intimate friendship.

Slowly he drew off one shoe and bared his left foot.
It was not a perfect member. The main part of the foot
was symmetrical, but from the outer edge branched a
sixth toe, which increased in size the extremity of the limb
and made a small protuberance appear on the surface of
the shoe.

Wrengell looked down at the malformation with a feeling
almost of hatred. How often in his childhood, when,
before he was large enough to work, he went barefooted
to school, had his companions pointed sneeringly at his
deformity. The drunken father, the depraved mother,
the sixth toe he had considered component parts of his
disgrace.

He had thought that, far from the associations of his
youth, he might escape the obloquy which had weighed
him down. He believed that the mark of shame was upon
him, that it was visible to whomsoever he met, that it had
been seen by the Ratkes, and that by them he was despised.

Archer had been by common consent relegated to the
farther corner of the room, and was there snoring 
comfortably, and noisily. Wrengell, knowing that no common
circumstance would awaken the slumberer, went to his
bedside, and, taking down his violin, which hung over his
head, commenced to play a lively air. The music had
been in progress not a minute, when the loud talking on
the ground floor ceased, and Brown called "Helloa! what's
the racket up there, Will? Less go up, boys," he added
as the playing continued.

Wrengell had barely time to throw down the violin and
get into bed before the men were in the chamber.

"He's learned a new piece," said Daggett, "and he's
improved mightily."

"'Stonishin'," remarked the Canadian, Thompson.

"Why, boys," exclaimed Daggett, as the sleeper exhaled
a deeply rumbling current of air, "he's asleep."

"Did he play that in his sleep?"

"He must of," replied Brown.

"Less wake him up," said Daggett.

"I tell you vat," observed Wingscheut, "you can push
unt you can pull, put tey can't no man vake up Vill
Archer."

Straws, snuff and pepper were applied to his nose, but
their sole effect was to make him give uneasy sniffs and
change his position.

"Say," exclaimed Brown, dragging him half out of bed
and at last getting the sleepy eyelids to unclose, "why
don't you play like that when you're awake?"


CHAPTER VI.
THE GUERRERO MINING COMPANY.

It was a model spring day. The snow had quite disappeared,
and the ground was relieved of its superabundant
moisture so nearly that the roads were in fair condition
for the passage of teams. Ratke's barnyard, tracked up
by the stock, was a lone quagmire, surrounded by stretches
of solid earth.

Montcalm had just returned from Break o'Day, where
the major had sent him for the mail. Ratke, wishing to
avoid the unpleasant observation of Mrs. Grippin, made a
detour and reached the barns in time to help him unhitch
the horse.

"Here are your cigars," said Montcalm, extending a
wooden box as Ratke drew near.

"What cigars?" asked the major.

"Do you not remember?" Montcalm queried; "you bet
me a box of cigars that the company to which I belong
would accept you as a member? I felt sure of the wager,
but you have won it."

"You should have known better than to bet with me,"
said the major, taking the cigars. "I have seen more of
the world than you have."

"I have discovered that to my cost," replied Montcalm.

"I am anxious to hear the revelation which the company
allows you to make," said the major.

"Very well," said Montcalm, "but first you must sign
this agreement not to disclose the information you receive.
It is a mining company," said Montcalm, when Ratke had
signed the printed agreement, "and is located in the
province of Guerrero, Mexico. Two miners of Chicago
got tired of prospecting out West and finally went
southward. South of the city of Mexico they found what
they believed to be rich diggings. They returned to
Chicago and interested some men of moderate means, who
formed the Guerrero Mining Company. In their excavations
they came upon many curious relics, such as pottery,
weapons and bodily ornaments. They exhumed a skeleton
seven feet in length, with silver bracelets on its arms and
ornaments of the same metal on its legs. The scientific
men have disputed as to the date of its interment.
Professor McDowell claims it is the remains of an Anahuac
who lived previous to the union of that tribe with the
Chicimecs, while Dr. Hartsuff is equally positive that it is
a relic of the ante-Toltec period. Professor McDowell is
writing a work on the ancient races, which he intends to
publish as soon as the existence of the mines is generally
known. What is your opinion on the subject, Major?"

"We will discuss that some other time," replied the
major, who was not particularly well posted on American
aboriginal history, and who wished to consult his
authorities before committing himself.

"Here is the letter which they wrote me," said Montcalm.

"They seem like candid fellows," remarked the major,
after perusing the missive. "Notice that, Trace.

"'Major Ratke's reputation as a veteran of the Mexican
war is such that we are not afraid to trust him with the
knowledge he wishes. A new mine has been opened, and
we can let him have one share of stock, provided he sends
us his application for membership as soon as the fourteenth
of March.'

"You see," continued the major, "they have heard of
me. The people are beginning to revere the veterans of
the Mexican war. But they have picked up specific
information about me. Are there any of my old comrades
in the company?"

"I do not know," replied Montcalm. "They may have
read in the histories of your military exploits."

"No," said the major; "my name was mentioned in the
newspapers which gave an account of the war period, but
it never appeared in history. Tell me something more
about your company."

"All its members whom I know," said Montcalm, "are
men whose characters are beyond reproach. They wish
to keep the knowledge of the mines from the money kings,
until they have occupied the best diggings. They pay a
quarterly dividend of fifteen per cent, on the capital. That
is sixty percent, yearly. Mr. Bruce, a friend of mine, who
used to live in Cortland, gave me the chance of membership."

"I like your company," said the major, "because of
the men of culture who are in it and who prop it with
respectability. Where are you going, Trace?"

"To the woods," answered Montcalm. "I have not
yet worked up that old tree-top."

"What is the use of your being in such a hurry?" asked
the major impatiently. "You have not told me all about
the mining enterprise."

"I will do so at noon, to the best of my ability."

"One thing troubles me," said Ratke, "and that is the
mortgage on my place. Unless relief comes, the farm
must be sold in July. I hoped that I might die where I
had lived in the prime of manhood. Here I have planned
and worked. In that tool-house have been generated
those mental children, whose births have cost me the
pangs of labor, whose nurture and development have been
my constant care, and which, I had hoped, would be the
comfort of my declining years. If I am to be driven from
my home, it would be a solace to know that that building
will be pointed out as the one in which were cradled the
creations of a mighty inventive genius."

"I trust that you will not be reduced to so poor a
consolation," said Montcalm. "My father was heavily in
debt, and he paid the mortgage on his place."

"How did he manage it?" inquired Ratke.

"The mortgage so nearly covered the real value of the
property," answered Montcalm, "that it was difficult for
him to obtain the money. He was obliged to give his
creditor a deed of the farm and take a bond for the
deed."

"A bond?" queried Ratke.

"Yes," responded Montcalm; "his creditor bound himself
by a forfeit of $20,000, to deed back the property,
provided the debt was paid at the specified time. My
father cleared the place of the incumbrance in three
years."

"If I could get such a chance," said the major, "I
would accept it. Of course it would be a risk. But, 
unless something is done, I am certain to lose everything.
Times are hard, and nothing will sell now. Land would
bring a very low price if it were put up at auction. In
case my property must go, I would rather see it pass into
other hands than Green's. Stay a little longer. Trace."

"I am paid for my time," answered Montcalm firmly,
"and I must improve it."

"Just like your father," said the major. "Nothing ever
kept him from duty. Well, since you will go, I will make
it as easy as possible for you. You can take the one-man
saw."

After Montcalm's departure to the woods, Ratke seated
himself on a log which was on the south side of the 
central barn. The sun, whose warming rays are most
appreciated after a hard winter, beat down with just
enough heat to make the position one of comfort. The major,
enjoying the delightful temperature of the place, glanced
upward to note the spot where the lines of heat struck the
barn-boards and were reflected downward to him. He
located the angle of reflection formed by that most pleas-
ing ray which touched the back of his neck. It was above
and at the right of a protruding nail and under and to the
left of an oval knot. This done, he traced out the normal
which with the perpendicular completed the plane of
reflection. He estimated how far away must be an object
which interrupts the sun's rays, to produce a cold wave
sixty seconds from the time of interruption.

Opposite to his dwelling the hired men were engaged
in the work of transferring the hill to the quagmire. Some
of them were laboring faithfully enough. There were,
however, two notable exceptions. Wingscheut and
Archer, on the sunny slope of the elevation, out of sight
of the house and, in their opinion, of the major, were
seated on the ground kicking up the dirt with their heels.

Ratke wished that he could bar from them temporarily
the calorific or heat rays of the sun, so that the mild
climate of the hillside would be changed to the frigidity
of winter. How he would enjoy watching them as the gradual
decline in temperature came on. They would slap
their hands and stamp with their feet and put off the
hardship of work as long as they could, but they would have
to -- yes, they would have to, get up and shovel or freeze.
Then, when they were industriously at their work, he would
remove the obstacle and let the pleasant warmth again
stream down upon them. Of course there would be a
relapse of laziness and a consequent reapplication of the
remedy, but they would soon learn that friction develops
heat, that there was a relation between the action of the
shovel and the transmission of the calorific rays, and he
would have the power of securing efficient service from his
hired men.

A foreign body passed between him and the scene of
labor. To the preoccupied major the object seemed to
divide, the under and larger piece remaining stationary,
while the upper portion fell off and continued to advance.
With an effort the major drew his attention from the hill
and recognized Durgenson, a cattle-buyer and dealer in
agricultural implements.

Durgenson also dealt occasionally in horses and sheep,
and was well liked in the community for his square
dealing, his readiness to accommodate and his frank,
jocular manner. The only thing which had ever blackened his
good name in that region was his rumored connection with
the Nijni Novgorod oat scheme, but he had demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the farmers that he was guiltless of
complicity in the fraud. He was a large, square-shouldered
man with a closely-trimmed, full beard which gave
him an appearance sterner at a distance than in close
proximity.

"How is everything, Major?" he said, with the heartiness
which had made him popular among the rural classes.

Ratke, resolved to reap some advantage from the intrusion
on his meditations, broached to the cattle-buyer the
subject of a loan.

"I don't hardly know what to tell you. Major," responded
Durgenson. "I'd like to accommodate. I would. But I don't
see how I can now. Can't you get the money of Berry?"

"I have been to Berry," answered Ratke, "and I have
been to every moneyed man in the county. They all
talk as you do. It will be no risk to you. I will give you
a deed of the farm; and you on your part must sign a
bond to deed it back provided the money is paid at the
specified time."

"I don't see how I can help you, Major," said Durgenson.
"I couldn't let you have a loan any longer than
August. That is, I wouldn't agree to, for I'm thinking
I'll want to use my cash then. That wouldn't pay you at
all. You might better get it of some one that can wait."

"There are no such men in this vicinity," returned
Ratke. "You can let me have it until August, you say.
That may be long enough to save me. Whatever happens,
I do not want the place to go on the mortgage, for I
cannot endure it to be gloated over by Green. I tell you,
Durgenson, I am crowded to the wall, and, unless I
get help, I shall be ruined. I will pay you twenty per
cent interest and secure you so that you can lose nothing."

"Oh, I don't want your twenty per cent," said Durgenson.
"Seven will do me. If I can accommodate you, I'll
be glad. That's all. Of course I'll have to have the
bond just as we talked. Maybe I can let you have it four
or five years. It depends altogether on whether I get in
a pinch or not. I shall have to draw up the papers to
make it payable in July."

"That is satisfactory to me," said the major. "Suppose
we meet at Sparks's to draw up the writings this afternoon."

"All right," responded Durgenson. "By the way, have
you any fat cattle to sell?"

As the major had no cattle of any description to sell,
Durgenson took his departure.

That afternoon in the office of Justice Sparks James
Ratke signed the instrument which gave sections fourteen
and twenty-three and the north half of section eleven to
Hiram B. Durgenson, his heirs and assigns forever. The
major's hand moved unwillingly as he took the pen. The
word "forever" in capitals looked to him unnecessarily
large. He had hitherto refrained from placing an 
incumbrance on the Barton hundred and sixty. But after the
deeding away of the larger part of his property, he went
to Break o'Day and, that he might invest in the Guerrero
Mining Company, mortgaged this, the last of his real
estate.

Returning to his home, he found Mrs. Grippin and
Manie getting a basket of cakes and pies in readiness for
the donation, which was to be held that night.

Manie had accepted the offer of Montcalm's service as
escort. Nora, disappointed in securing the attention of
Fred Loomis, had acquainted Manie with her trouble, and
that model of cousins had exercised her influence on the
major, who had invited John Wrengell to ride in the wagon
with the family. So it happened that Nora and he whose
awkwardness she had mercilessly ridiculed not a week
before sat side by side during the journey to Osborne's.

The major soon after his arrival at Osborne's met a
reverse in his favorite warfare, argument. Lyman Sparks
had brought with him Largess, a nephew of his wife and the
principal of the Sharptown Academy, who, according to
the rural custom, was honored with the title of "Professor."
Professor Largess was an atheist; and the pride of
the Sparks' who were professed Christians, was raised more
by the proficiency of their relative in debate than it was
lowered by, the defeat, of their creed. The professor was
a tall, lank, loose-jointed man, who, while he was talking,
walked back and forth with a bombastic swing and a rising
and falling of his index finger, a habit which he had
probably acquired in the school-room.

As the major was considered the argumentative champion
of Jefferson township, upon him, in the absence of
the minister, fell the task of defending the Biblical account
of creation. This task he strove manfully to perform.
But his efforts were unsuccessful. The professor was well
versed in those evolutionary theories which have sprung up
in the last half century, and especially in such authors as
Spencer and Darwin, who, more than the direct advocates
of infidelity, have sown the seeds of unbelief. The effect
of this logic upon Ratke was something like that produced
upon the Romans by the introduction of Pyrrhus' elephants
into Italy; but, with the perseverance of that stubborn
people, he determined to bring confusion to the opposing
lines by the use of the enemy's own auxiliaries.

The call to supper gave him an interval of rest and an
opportunity to collect his scattered forces, just as the blows
of his opponent were driving him from his last redoubt.
The major was a firm believer in the benefit of an
abstemious diet on brain labor. While he appreciated a good
meal, he liked better a controversial triumph. He ate,
therefore, very sparingly, keeping his mind on the discussion
and avoiding such food as is detrimental to clear
thinking. Of all viands he was fondest of roast pig, and
near him was a young porker prepared by a master hand,
but he withdrew his gaze from the tempting brown as he
reflected that baked pork requires five hours to digest.

He noticed to his satisfaction that Largess was eating
heartily, almost voraciously. The professor had taken
two dishes of oysters, besides pastry and other eatables,
when Ratke passed toward him the platter holding the
pig, which, leaving a liberal share of its contents on his
plate, made a circuit of the table and returned to its
original position. Whenever Largess's supply of meat was
nearly exhausted and his longing glances again wandered
to the platter for which he was ashamed to call, the
obliging major, who was nibbling with pretended relish at
his first piece of bread, politely supplied his wants. And
now the professor took his third and the last remaining
piece of pig from the platter, which had been seized and
passed by Ratke barely in time for it to escape the clutches
of a ravenous farmer at his right.

The major had a suspicion that his conduct in this affair
was not strictly according to the rules of honorable warfare,
that it somewhat resembled the ruse of the Central
African who feeds the hippopotamus pease, or that of the
sons of Jacob who converted the Hivites to circumcision
only to slay them before they had recovered from the rite.
Whatever his scruples, they did not deter him from
maintaining any advantage which he had gained. Approaching
Largess, who was picking his teeth and whose lank
form actually seemed to have grown rotund, he remarked,
"So you claim that all growth springs primarily from
intelligence?"

"Assuredly", replied the professor.

"And intelligence is divided into two kinds---conscious
and unconscious?"

"That is the theory of the leading men of to-day, sir,"
answered Largess.

"And," continued the major, "conscious intelligence
alone possesses the power of definite thought?"

"That is not a debatable question," dryly commented
the professor.

The major congratulated himself that the roast pig was
taking effect.

"Which requires the higher degree of intelligence," he
asked---"the creation of the simple or of the complex?"

"I am not partial to trivialities," angrily replied the
professor. "But, since you wish an answer to every petty
interrogation which you invent, I will tell you. The
creation of the complex requires the higher power."

"Is there not some conscious intelligence about a
tree?" inquired the major.

"Conscious intelligence?" said Largess, uncertain
whether to give a negative or an affirmative answer.
"Why do you ask?" Then, thinking the major's question
a declaration and deciding that it was best to oppose it,
he added, "No enlightened modern scientist ever saw fit
to ascribe conscious intelligence to a tree. It is contrary
to recognized evolutionary theories."

"And time is a period of constant progress?"

"No man of sense ever had the hardihood to dispute
it," answered Largess.

"Now," said the major, "one question more is all I
will ask. What kind of intelligence shaped that top,
which Mr. Osborne's boy has probably had for his amusement?"

"If this is your last," said the professor, "I will have
patience to answer you. It was conscious intelligence."

"Allow me to state several of your propositions," said
the major.

"Proposition I.: Conscious intelligence alone possesses
the power of definite thought.

"Proposition II.: Time is a period of constant progress.

"Proposition III.: The creation of the complex requires
a higher degree of intelligence than the creation of the
simple.

"Proposition IV.: A tree is not created by conscious
intelligence.

"Proposition V.: A top is created by conscious intelligence.

"Do I state your position correctly?"

"We will go back to protoplasm," said Largess. "The
cause of primordial growth is intelligence."

"You wish to ignore my question," returned Ratke.
"I have correctly stated your argument. A top requires
for its construction one kind of wood, a knife and a boy
with little mechanical skill. A tree is composed of many
different elements which I cannot mention. The tree,
therefore, is more complex and requires a higher order of
intelligence. It is not possible for all of your statements
to be correct. You assert, firstly, that the creation of the
complex requires a higher degree of intelligence than the
creation of the simple. And secondly, that the creation
of the complex requires the lower order of intelligence.
Which one of your propositions is wrong?"

"Sir," said the professor, walking back and forth and
resuming the bombastic swing and the rising and falling
of his index finger, "when you confine yourself to reason,
I will answer you. You have no authority from science
to ascribe conscious intelligence to a tree. Time is a
period of progress. When that tree falls, decays and its
substance is in the body of a man, then there will be
associated with it that intangible thing which is called
mind."

"If intelligence is the sole creator," replied Ratke,
"and all growth is self-creating, when you were an oak
you might well be proud of your intellect. Then you
could measure out the exact quantity of each ingredient
necessary to your development, and, at the same time,
tell each rootlet what kind of nutriment it should con-
tribute to the general supply. Had you in weighing let the
balance slip a notch, you would have made an elm instead
of an oak. Then you had knowledge and ingenuity such
as is possessed by no human chemist or inventor. Now,

I doubt if you have ingenuity enough to make a good
ferule. And yet you say time is a period of constant
progress. Professor Largess, you are indebted for your
entanglement not to me, but to yourself."

"Bertrand," said Mrs. Sparks, "come away. I wouldn't
pay any attention to him."

"I will talk no longer with one so unreasonable,"
declared the professor, going toward the bedroom, which
had been made a receptacle of hats and overcoats.

"Largess," began Ratke, following him until the bedroom
door was closed against him, "which one of your
propositions did I mistake? Tell me. Does the creation
of the complex require a higher order of intelligence than
the creation of the simple? Is time a period of constant
progress?"

"My batteries were too strong for him," commented the
major as he was on his way home. "I completely
demoralized him."

"Didn't you tell him he beat himself?" asked Mrs.
Grippin. "And now you're claiming you was the one
that did it."

While they were going along a level stretch of road,
they were passed by Lyman Sparks, Mrs. Sparks and
Professor Largess in a buggy drawn by Sparks' trotter,
Madge T.

"Charge!" shouted Ratke.

The horses instantly sprang into a run. Mrs. Grippin
was saved from falling only by clinging to her brother, and
John and Nora were thrown in a heap to the bottom of
the box.

"James Ratke," shrieked Mrs. Grippin, "you don't
deserve to have any horses. You stop now, for I won't
ride so. You act like a fool."

"Go on. Uncle James," cried Nora gleefully from the
bottom of the box. "Don't you let him beat you, Uncle
James. Oh my! Ain't it fun! We're gaining on him,"

The major ran his team by Sparks, and, wishing to
show that one of his horses excelled in another gait,
steadied Taylor to a trot, allowing the gray Bill to lope
along by his side. The change in tactics cost him his
success in the race, for Sparks, urging Madge T. to the
utmost, again went by him and obtained the lead on a
narrow causeway where he could not be passed and racing
was impossible. After turning the corner west of the
church, the major practiced his team in making a quick
start and in obeying instantly the summons of "Halt!"

"James Ratke," said Mrs. Grippin, when she stood
by their dwelling, "you act crazy. I never saw such a
man. I've a good notion to say I never will ride with you
again."

"I wish," said the major reflectively, "that I had
brought with us the cow I bought of Osborne. I might
have hitched her behind the wagon."

"Yes," retorted Mrs. Grippin contemptuously; "then
you'd have dragged her home. Tie a cow behind a wagon
when you drive."


CHAPTER VII.
MONTCALM TAKES A NIGHT'S RAMBLE.

The spring was advanced to May. A few changes had
taken place at the farm. The major had prosecuted with
more than his usual vigor his various enterprises. He had
improved his Jerusalem wagon. He had exercised a better
supervision over his hired men. He had succeeded in
reducing the hill almost to a level with the quagmire, a
task which, owing to his under-estimation of the number
of grammes of force required for the transfer, or to his
overestimation of the number of ergs of work in his men, had
taken longer than he had expected. Wingscheut, dissatisfied
with the shoveling which he had been obliged to do,
had hired out to Lyman Sparks, where he had found
smaller wages and harder work.

The large clock in the sitting-room had struck eleven,
and the Ratke family and farm hands, with one exception,
had gone to bed. Montcalm, thoughtful and gloomy, sat
in his bedroom. The last month had not been one of
satisfaction to him. He had been accustomed to have
his attentions sought after instead of seeking for an
opportunity to bestow them. Some social triumphs, it is
true, had been his; but Manie, whom of all women he
most admired, had declined to accept his addresses, and
had even hinted that his compliments savored more of
flattery than of sincerity.

Irresolutely the restless hired man rose and peered from
his window. The evergreens, almost touching;; the house,
were moving slightly their branches and emitting a
subdued murmur which was scarcely audible.

Casting off his indecision, Montcalm began to unlock
one of two trunks which were in the room. The trunk
was well fastened, requiring him to press several springs
and to turn a thin key before the lid flew open and its
contents were revealed. Had the major glanced over
Montcalm's shoulder at that moment, he would have been
struck with astonishment; but he could not possibly have
named any considerable proportion of the articles which
he would have seen. There were small saws, iron or steel
implements, and, most curious of all, four large woolen
pads, to which were attached hollow columns of leather
resembling bootlegs, and each of which, when placed upon
the floor, covered an area of more than one square foot.

Picking up the pads and a long steel bar and putting
them into a large sack, Montcalm opened the window and
climbed stealthily to the ground. From the shelter of the
trees he scrutinized the road, which showed no sign of
being traversed. The moon had set, but the stars,
unobscured save by a few thin streaks of cloud, in a
measure made up for the missing light. Passing to the barn
from the lower edge of the shaded walk, he continued his way
at a distance from the road sufficient to escape the
observation of a possible passer-by and was soon in the
rear of the tenement house occupied by Philetus Takum.

His approach was heralded by a suppressed growl, and
Takum's yellow dog, Lina, and two litters of pups, one
about the size of large cats, the other larger than their
mother, came out to give him a canine welcome. The
elder dog with the younger progeny trotted back to the
nest under the house, but the larger pups capered about
him as if desirous to become acquainted.

The place had about it an air of thriftlessness, quite
suggestive of the character of its inhabitants. The fence
which had bounded the yard had yielded to the demand
for fuel, and in the place where a wood-pile had once been
there were left not chips enough to kindle a fire. A light
streamed through a window, from which had been broken
several panes of glass, whose places had been supplied by
a board, some rags and two old hats.

In the house, a female voice was charging Takum with
a neglect to provide wood, and from the loft came boyish
complaints, which were indistinguishable to Montcalm.

"Harv," growled Takum, "you quit your crowdin', or
I'll be up there d'rectly."

Montcalm, going to the rear of some bushes, whither
he was followed by the pups, lifted one of them by the
tail clear from the ground, an act which elicited a
doleful lament, and brought the mother snarling to the
assistance of her offspring.

"Shut up, you brutes," yelled Takum, poking his head
from the door. "What in thunder is the matter with
'em ?" he ejaculated, as the noise continued unabated.

"Why! Mr. Montcalm," he exclaimed, as he suddenly
confronted the visitor. "I didn't know you was here. I
thought somethin' was the matter with the pups by the
way Lina took on."

"And so there was," replied Montcalm. "This one
was clever enough to call you out for me. Get your hat
and come on. Get one you are not used to wearing."

"Ain't it purty light?" asked Philetus. "Seems to me
it is."

"Very well," returned Montcalm, "if you are afraid, I
can get some one else."

"Oh, no, I ain't afraid,' assured Takum. "But I
thought, you know. I'll git my hat right off."

"Get one of those from the window," said Montcalm.
"Do not let your wife know that any one is with you."

Montcalm and Takum traversed the field in front of
Ratke's at an angle sufficient to bring them some distance
in the rear of the leveled hill. As, after crossing several
other fields, they clambered over a fence which bounded
a strip of timber, some sheep fled through the bushes in
alarm.

"Jerusalem!" said Takum. "Wouldn't this be a fine
place for a feller to help himself to mutton? I thought
they was runnin' over by the church. They was last
week. Green keeps his sheep fat, too. But they ain't so
fat as Lyme Sparkses. His sheep is just a wad o' fat.
But of all sheep ole Ratke's. Gosh all Friday ! I wouldn't
eat one o' his sheep for a farm. But say, if you like
chickens, Lyme 'Sparks has got some o' the biggest, fattest
Cochins you ever see. They grow quick, you know.
Why, the meat 'ill almost sqush in your hands."

"I am not hungry for chickens," Montcalm shortly
replied.

"Mebbe you like ducks better," suggested Philetus.
"Green has got some o' the genuine Pekin. We might
as well kill two birds with one stone."

"I have no appetite for ducks," answered Montcalm.
"Let us attend to the business in hand."

"I s'pose nothin'll satisfy you but a goose," said
Takum. "Widder Smith is the only one in this hull
country that keeps geese. They're the plaguiest things to
hook, though, you ever see. They'll get right on the
doorstep an' gabble, gabble enough to wake the nations.
But they ain't none on 'em sharp enough for me. Just you
watch, an' I'll show you a trick that'll make you open
your eyes."

"Is your name Phleet?" inquired Montcalm.

"That's the handle I go by," answered Takum.

"Well, then, Phleet, you have altogether too much
mouth for a man of your size. Do what I tell you to do,
and never mind hens and geese."

"What is that?" he exclaimed, as some animals came
cautiously in view at the edge of an open space. "They
are your dogs."

The older pups, which, alone, had ventured to follow,
were by a few clubs sent yelping back to the residence of
Takum.

"Nice help the boss picked out for me," commented
Montcalm---"a fool and his dogs."

"I'm a-goin' back," said Philetus, "I ain't a-goin' to
stay here to be abused."

"You can go a little ways, if you like," answered Montcalm,
"about a step. At the second I shall shoot you."

Philetus was terrified as much by the kindly tone of
Montcalm as by the savage words with which it was
coupled. So dreadful a threat, uttered in such a manner,
he believed was not an idle one. He followed in silence
his superior, whom he watched with wonder and fear.

Emerging from the woods, they came to a lane which
led to the barns of Green.

"You are working in finely, Phleet," complimented
Montcalm.

"I'm glad you think so, Mr. Montcalm," responded
Philetus in the lowest of whispers, as much pleased at
the compliment as was one of his dogs at his own fondling.

"Lie here by this straw-stack," commanded Montcalm,
as they entered the barn-yard. "I will take a turn about,
the house. Can you tell me where all the folks sleep ? "

"Ole Green and Mis' Green they sleep in the bedroom
this way," answered Philetus, so cautiously that he could
be barely heard. "An' the fool, he sleeps upstairs. An'
say, don't git mad if I talk too much, but mebbe ole Green
ain't gone to bed. He don't always burn lights, just to
save oil, you know."

"I am glad you spoke of that," said Montcalm, taking
the opportunity to soothe Takum's wounded feelings. "I
will be careful."

Philetus, whose nerves had not recovered from the
shock which they had received in the woods, was content
to lie hidden in the straw. He started nervously, as he
heard the whisper of Montcalm, who approached from a
direction opposite to that in which he had set out.

"Everything is all right. Bring on that sack," said
Montcalm.

Green, following the custom which prevailed among
Jackson County farmers, kept his horse-barn locked.
Montcalm drew the steel bar from the sack, inserted
it in the staple, and at a few hearty wrenches twisted the
fastening from its place.

Takum's curiosity concerning the sack, for the
satisfaction of which he had not dared ask a question, had
now an opportunity to be gratified. Montcalm took one
of the strange-looking articles and endeavored to put the
boot-like attachment on the leg of a colt which stood in a
farther stall; but the animal was high-spirited, and he
was obliged to summon Takum to his assistance.

The efforts of both were required to encase the feet of
the colt in the pads. Considerable noise was made by
the beast, as he stepped about trying to keep his feet
from the clumsy coverings by which they were being
cumbered.

Montcalm ordered Takum to stay close to the corn-
crib, which was between the barns and the house, while he
made a second tour about the latter building.

"Everything is quiet," he remarked, as he returned to
his waiting ally. "Both of us must get that horse by the
bridle, one on each side, for he promises to give us some
trouble."

It was as Montcalm had predicted. The animal, when
he comprehended that the bulky articles were on his feet,
shied from side to side and came very near jamming
Montcalm against the corner of a post. But the pads,
soft as boxing-gloves, so muffled the sound that it could
be heard but a few rods; and when the horse trod the
solid ground, his uneasiness abated.

"You may ride if you like," said Montcalm, when they
were in the lane.

"No, I'd rather foot it," answered Philetus, suspecting
that the colt would not prove a docile beast of burden.

With a leap Montcalm lighted on the back of the
horse, which plunged furiously forward, but subsided to a
slower gait when he felt the grip of the master on his
rein. Philetus, afraid to lag behind, raced after his
superior at a pace which severely taxed his powers and
led him to the conclusion that hereafter, should he be
given the choice, he would hazard a possible fall rather
than accept the alternative of certain exertions which
were more violent than pleasant. At the entrance to the
woods Montcalm dismounted and opened the gate before
he was joined by his breathless subordinate. He led the
colt through the timber, as the trees and overhanging
limbs might lead to a casualty should he remain on the
animal's back.

"Say," whispered Philetus, "don't think I'm a-talkin'
too much, but Green calls this colt Billy."

"I am glad you told me," replied the leader. "It may
help me to manage him."

The direction which they were pursuing was southeasterly.
Philetus was astonished to see Montcalm, a
stranger in the neighborhood, lead the way through the
woods with a facility which he, a practiced raider of the
vicinity, could not have equaled. Nor did his surprise
abate when his companion, tying his horse to a sapling,
brought from beneath a rotten log a sack, concerning the
contents of which he was too much intimidated to inquire,
but which he believed to contain a set of large woolen
pads.

They were obliged to let down a fence in order to pass
from the woods. After the rails were put back to their
places, Montcalm told Philetus that he might ride; and
that worthy, remembering the strain to which his legs
were subjected in the lane, gladly accepted his offer.

Philetus had not far to practice his equestrianism. He
passed through a gate, which led into the road and which
Montcalm opened.

The large square house of Lyman Sparks, visible in the
starlight, stood behind its partial screen of small
pine-trees. It was evident from the buildings that the
farm was owned by one whose success had been obtained by
mastering the details of his profession. Not a stray board
could be seen about the premises. Not a picket was
loose in the fence which enclosed the house. The barns
were models of comfort to the stock and convenience to
the farmer; and between them was a straw-stack
symmetrically built and having a neatly rounded top.

In front of the barnyard were some walnut-trees, and to
a limb which hung conveniently low Montcalm tied the
halter-strap of the stolen horse.

"In which barn is Madge T.?" he asked.

"In the one this way, the first stall," answered Takum.

"Stand by that small building," said Montcalm, "and
watch the horse. If you hear any disturbance, notify me
at once."

Philetus was by the protection of a not unfamiliar
retreat, for it was the hen-house which he had so often
visited. His instinct of thieving --- for the propensity
had become an instinct --- was stronger than his fear of
Montcalm, especially in the absence of the latter. In a
very short time he had one of Sparks' matchless Cochins
stuffed inside his jacket. His intrusion aroused a cackling
protest among the fowls, and the dog, which had hitherto
kept quiet, now ran out and added to the tumult. Philetus,
alarmed at the result of his action, went hastily to
Montcalm, and whispered,

"That dog's out, and they can't nobody stop him."

"The pads are all on," said Montcalm. "Help me lead
out this horse, and we will get away immediately."

"Quick, Mr. Montcalm!" said Takum in excitement.
"They're a-comin'! They're a comin'! "

Just then Sparks, clad in his under-garments, shouted
from his back porch,

"Halt! Where be you a-goin' with my horse?"

"Jump on her back," ordered Montcalm. "Ride east
a quarter of a mile and wait. I will join you as soon as I
can."

There was near the barn from which Madge T. had
been taken a third party, whose proximity was not
suspected, either by Sparks or by the depredators. The
vender of "Great American Panacea" repulsed at every
house where he had asked for a night's lodging, had
sought the straw-stack, in the side of which a hole had
been eaten by the stock. The barking of the dog and the
disturbance in the hen-house and in the stable suggested
that he was not the only intruder, and the voice of Sparks
confirmed the indications from other sources. With the
conviction that the location was becoming dangerous, the
peddler picked up his satchels and prepared to depart.
He emerged from the cavern in the side of the straw-stack
at the same moment that Wingscheut, who had dilatorily
followed Sparks and his boy, came around the corner of
the hen-house and confronted him.

Once face to face with the supposed horse-thief, the
German was far from feeling the courage of which he was
wont to boast. His employer and son were on the opposite
side of the barn, and before their arrival to his
assistance, he might be killed by the desperate stranger.
His conduct was determined by the indecision of Panicky.
His valor returned with tenfold intensity as the peddler
whirled, dropped his satchels and made toward the barnyard
fence, and with a wild dash he caught him with his
boasted hiplock and brought him heavily to the ground,
yelling at the top of his voice,

"I'fe cot te tam horse-tief ! I'fe cot te tam horse-tief!"

Poor Panicky clutched the wrists of Wingscheut, whose
intention was mercilessly to pound him. He would have
given the contents of his satchels, of his pockets, even the
clothes he wore, to be placed, unhampered, four feet from
his captor.

"Oh, let me up!" he pleaded, clinging to the writhing
hands, which threatened to descend upon him with crushing
force. "I haven't stole any horse."

"Yes you haf stole a horse," affirmed Wingscheut,
struggling to free his hands, "te pest horse in te whole
country. I'll cif you a face vat von't look coot in 
Suntay-school. Let co my hant, I tell you. Can't you mint
notting? Come kill te tam horse-tief," he added, as Sparks
and his boy drew near.

Montcalm did not wait to see his order to Takum
obeyed. He ran down the graveled drive and to the
walnut-tree before he was passed by Philetus. He had
hitched the horse underneath the tree, the limbs of which
were low, so that he could distinctly see neither the house
nor the barn. An embarrassing difficulty was now presented.
The halter-strap, at which the colt had been
continually pulling, could not be readily untied; and he
had left his knife at home in a pocket of his working
clothes. Pulling and twisting, he managed to break the
limb and disengage the severed extremity from the
halter-strap.

It was at this juncture that he heard Wingscheut
proclaiming that he had captured the horse-thief. He was
at a loss to account for the circumstance. Madge T. had
certainly raced by him, but behind the low-hanging bushes
he had not ascertained whether Philetus were on her back,
although he had had no suspicion that such was not the
case. He laid hold of a strong stick which had been used
to knock walnuts from the tree, before he decided on his
course of action, but all doubts as to the cause of the
outcry were at an end when Wingscheut again called Sparks
to come and kill the horse-thief.

Whatever were the faults of Montcalm, he was not the
one to desert an ally. Assuring himself that his revolver
was ready for use, he sprang upon the back of the horse
and dashed up the drive, through a gate which had been
left open by Sparks, and around the corner of the barn.

The Sparkses, happening to look up in season, fled
before what they supposed to be a rescue of cavalry,
effecting their retreat through a second gate which led
into the lane. Wingscheut, intent on pounding Panicky
and unwarned by the muffled hoofs of the horse, which
made but little noise, did not realize his danger until
communication with the house and with his employer
was cut off. He was frightened at the prospect of
receiving the violence which he was anxious to mete out
to another, and he limped around the straw-stack with a
speed which was, for a man who had a crippled leg, almost
phenomenal. His terror did not find vent in words until
Montcalm raced up and struck him several blows with his
cudgel, when he exclaimed:

"Ton't kill a man vat ain't to plame! Warum schlgst
du mich? Was hab' ich gethan? I ain't tone notting!
Te teffil, I ain't tone notting!"

Montcalm, satisfied that those whom he had dispersed
would not soon organize for pursuit, turned his horse by
a considerable effort and rode back to Panicky, who,
satchels in hand, was preparing to leave the locality, which
had for him no pleasant recollections. "Here," said
Montcalm, unable distinctly to see the man whom he had
rescued, and supposing him to be Philetus, "jump on
quick and ride away."

"I don't believe I care to ride," answered Panicky.

"What!" ejaculated Montcalm. "Who are you ?"

The marauder leaped on his horse, from which he had
dismounted, and was instantly flying down the drive. His
perplexity over the incident at the straw-stack did not
abate when he found Takum waiting at the appointed
place.

"Oh! Mr. Montcalm," whispered Philetus, "I was
afraid they'd caught you. I heard 'em sayin' they'd got
the horse-thief and they was a-goin' to kill 'im. This ain't
hookin' chickens. We better be gittin' right out o' here."

"There is no hurry," replied Montcalm. "They are
no more anxious to find us than we are to find them.
Drive your horse out to the side of the road, and we will
trot along. Did you see any one around the barn or
straw-stack?"


"Nary a body," said Takum. "Can't you touch up
your horse, Mr. Montcalm? Caesar! how this mare pulls.
I can't hold her. 'Twouldn't do for us to git far apart.
They'd git away with us sure."

"I will try to keep so close to you that you can protect
me," Montcalm answered.

"That's just what I'll do," said Takum. "I'll stick
closer'n a brother. Less see if there's any run in these
horses."

"We will stop here," said Montcalm, as they came to a
wood at the end of the road. "Let down the fence. Be
careful," he cautioned, as Takum threw the rails right
and left.

"They're a-gittin' the neighbors out!" whispered
Philetus. "That's Sparkses boy. Just hear him yell!
Less light out!"

"They will not be here under half an hour," said Montcalm
"We must put up this fence or they will track us."

The wood was here easy of access. It had been used as
a picnic ground and had been consequently cleared of
underbrush. "Most of the trees were white oaks, the limbs
of which, unadorned, save by newly sprouted leaves,
admitted the direct rays of the stars and the diffused
light of the rising moon, though that luminary was not yet
visible above the tree tops. Farther along the slope which
the plunderers and their booty were descending, the trees
were taller, closer together and covered with a more
luxuriant growth of leaves. The boundary between the
forest and the great swamp was formed by a strip of small
ash and poplars, through which led, here and there, a
path.

Ordering Takum to hold the horses, Montcalm went
into the bushes and soon reappeared with two pairs of
high rubber boots.

"Hello," exclaimed Takum, who was beginning to lose
his apprehension of pursuit, "how did you know them
boots was there?"

"It is no bad thing to be good at guessing," said
Montcalm. "Strip off your cowhides and put on a pair,
for you will need them. After we get through this
thicket, we will ride till we come to the high bushes."

They rode easily through low brush and the belt of
water, which at the edge reached nearly to the horses'
bodies, but which grew shallow as they proceeded. When
they came to the high bushes, however, the brutes refused
to proceed farther. Montcalm tied the colt, removed the
pads from the feet of the animals, and led Madge T.,
while Philetus was ordered to urge her from the rear.
Sparks' trotter never before experienced such a
castigation as was administered to her by the tamarack
pole in the hands of the obedient Takum. Although
the distance was not more than half a mile, and Philetus
in wielding the pole spared neither the brute nor his own
muscle, it was thirty minutes before they reached the
tamaracks.

"Well," remarked Takum, wiping the sweat from his
brow, "we can't git no horse through them tamaracks."

"Let me show you how these trees grow," said Montcalm,
pulling one of them from the ground, in which a sharpened
point had been sticking.

"I swan!" ejaculated the wondering Philetus, "somebody
has cut them poles and stuck 'em back in again."

Madge T. was again tied, and the two men commenced
to pull the trees from a narrow space which had been
prepared for the speedy completion of a road. Many
fallen and nearly decayed tamaracks, which had been left
to give the way a natural appearance, were by Montcalm's
command lifted aside carefully, that they might again be
returned, unchanged, to their former position. It was
necessary to be near the trees which had been cut and
set in the ground to distinguished them from those which
were standing as they had grown. But a careful observer
would have noticed that the ground was disturbed, that
many of the trees were leaning, and that his feet often
stepped on the small stumps, which were imperfectly
hidden by ruffled moss. Montcalm depended for the
security of the stolen property on the loneliness of the
place more than on the measures he had taken to provide
for the closing of the road when his booty should have
passed through. Nor was this confidence ill-founded.
The huckleberries and tamaracks were so thick that in
many places it was impossible to see at a distance of more
than six feet. The mat of bushes, catching at clothes and
striking when they were bent back and released, were
certain to occupy a liberal share of the attention of
possible wanderer, if, as was quite unlikely, he might be
led at that season of the year, by business or curiosity,
to flounder through the mire and water which surrounded the
swamp.

As they proceeded into the interior of the thicket, the
trees were larger and farther apart, so that few of them had
to be removed. The road here became more winding,
not only because those who cleared it found it easier to
pass around than to chop down a large trunk, but because
this method offered less danger of detection. Presently
the way became straighter and the trees smaller and more
numerous, as at the edge of the tamaracks.

In a cleared spot of a few yards in area the plunderers
halted. Ample provision had been made for the
accommodation of the horses. By the border of the clearing
were a bag of oats, some bedding and a large bundle of hay
wound about with a rope. Had Philetus possessed the
spirit of romanticism, he would have reveled in the scene
before him. But unappreciated, even unnoticed, was that
combination of picturesqueness formed by the rising moon,
the spoils of the foray, the steed which had been ridden
in the expedition, the dark, resolute face of the leader and
the wall of marshy forest which screened him in his
retreat.

The ground, which in most swamps is highest at the
center, was here quite dry. It was covered by moss, on
which was spread a finer carpeting -- the leaves which had
dropped the preceding fall; and over it arched the
tamaracks, which had put forth their peculiar pointed
foliage before the phlegmatic oaks of the upland had
covered their naked branches after the lethargy of winter.

The second horse was more difficult to lead than the
first. He pulled back on his halter and when urged by
the blows with which Takum belabored him, plunged
ahead with such vehemence that Montcalm was scarcely
able to hold him. It was a relief to Philetus when both
horses were eating together in the opening. The work of
replacing the sharpened stakes occupied some minutes.
Montcalm insisted that the old brush and fallen poles
should be dragged back to their places and arranged with
care.

More disagreeable than the task which they had completed
was that of wading through the water which skirted
the marsh. The rubber boots, high as they were, sank
beneath the surface, and the clothing of the lower limbs
was saturated with muddy water. In the border of the
woods the men changed their rubber for leather boots,
and Montcalm substituted for his drenched trousers a pair
which he found in a clump of bushes, and which had been
left evidently with a view to meeting that exigency.

"Ain't it about time we was makin' towards home, Mr.
Montcalm?" asked Philetus.

"Why, are you sick of foraging?" inquired Montcalm.

"No, I ain't sick of it, as you might say," answered
Takum, "but I've got enough of it for just now, you know.
My legs is about petered."

"I think you and I can do a very good business," said
Montcalm.

"That's about what I think," returned Takum. "Me
an' you is hustlers, an' they hadn't nobody better interfere
with us neither."

As Takum finished this speech, his foot caught in a
brush, and he was thrown against a tree with such force
that his jacket was unbuttoned and the dead hen tumbled
against a log with a thud.

"How did you come by that?" demanded Montcalm.

"Well, you see," answered the terrified Philetus, "I
was right there, you know, by the hen-house, you know,
an' I thought it wouldn't do any hurt, seein' I'knew the
way in, to git this chicken."

"Was that when the dog barked?" asked Montcalm.

"No, just afore," acknowledged Takum. "You ain't
mad, be you, Mr. Montcalm?"

"I would not try any such thing again," said Montcalm.
"You must attend to business and let hens, ducks and
geese alone. You are green at the work, but by training
you will make a good hand."

"You bet your sweet neck," replied Philetus. "I ain't
no two-spot. Say, don't you think me an' you could git
them horses without accountin' to nobody for 'em?"

"No, it would not be best," said Montcalm. "We
could not sell them without getting caught. Besides, there
is a great risk in taking them. I never work in a
neighborhood long after I start a gang. You and I have too
long heads to wallow through swamps and risk our necks
around other men's barns at night. We will do the
planning, and let some one else do the work."

"Say, but there is somethin' in that," acquiesced
Philetus. "Me an' you can do the plannin'. I was to git
ten dollars for what I done, an' I've been scart more'n
ten dollars' worth, take it all around. Don't none o' the
men you have to work for you ever tell?"

"Oh, yes!" answered Montcalm, "they sometimes do."

"An' do you ever hurt 'em?" queried Takum.

"No," replied Montcalm.

"So you never do nothin' to 'em?" said Takum.

"Oh, yes!" said Montcalm, "we do something to them."

"An' what do you do?" asked Philetus.

"Shoot them," answered Montcalm.

"I thought you said you never hurt 'em," said Takum
in a disappointed tone.

"Neither do we. We kill them so quick it does not
hurt them," gently replied Montcalm,

"Oh, I wouldn't tell nobody," said Takum earnestly.
"I've hooked more chickens'n anybody in this hull
country, an' I never told anybody but you.

At Takum's house Montcalm struck across the fields
and was soon by Ratke's barns. In the shadow of the
largest he paused and deliberated whether it were not
better to leave the neighborhood. He knew that pursuit
must have been organized for his capture. It was also
possible that he had been recognized by Wingscheut,
Sparks or the mysterious stranger whom he had rescued.
Moreover, he had reason to fear the instability of
Philetus. But Philetus might prove a better confidant than
helper, especially after being impressed with the certainty
of punishment for the first breach of confidence.

Montcalm decided to remain. He hesitated to leave
her for whose approval, though it could not be gained, no
sacrifice would have been too great. He told himself
that, had she given him the least encouragement, he would
have averted the misfortunes which were gathering about
her and her relatives. He was tired of the life he was
leading, with its trickery and deceit, its wronging of honest
men. He would lay his plans, and at a few successful
moves gather in the money which would enable him to
live at peace with all mankind.

Strangely he felt the force of those words which that
Sabbath night Manie had spoken to him concerning
Ahab and the Syrian. He had made the covenant with
Ben-hadad, but his Ramoth Gilead had not yet come.
And would it come? With that apprehension by which
the guilty spirit alone is haunted, he looked about him.
In the peaceful air, undisturbed by a sound harsher than
the note of the whip-poor-will, was no warning. The only
foreign element in the quiet which reigned about the
place was the turbulence which agitated the mind of one
man.

The night was now well advanced. Some stars which
had by the marauders been used as landmarks or timepieces,
had changed their places or disappeared. The Pleiades
had descended to the westward. The great dipper had
lowered its handle until it appeared to be a receptacle
toward which were falling myriads of glittering drops.
Taking his way through the spruce, Montcalm raised his
window and clambered in.


CHAPTER VIII.
PURSUING THE DEPREDATORS.

Toward morning the major was awakened by loud and
repealed shouting. As passers-by had sometimes amused
themselves by calling him up and cracking jokes at his
expense, he did not at first respond to the summons. But
the continuance of the shouting argued the occurrence of
something unusual, and, hastily dressing, he went to the
dining-room window.

In the road was a band of mounted men, the advance
of which only could be seen by Ratke, while the main
portion of the body was obscured by the evergreens.
Some of the troop carried guns, several bore pitchforks,
not more than one or two appeared unarmed, and these
probably had revolvers.

"What is the matter?" inquired the major.

"Matter enough!" returned a voice. "Two horses was
stole last night, and we're after the thieves."

"We've got some inquiries to make here," said Green,
riding through the large gate and within a short distance
of the house, where he was followed by the band. "You
have men from every part of the country, and nobody
knows whether they are honest or not. What we want to
know is, where are they?"

"You may search the premises if you like," said Ratke.
"All of my men are in the club-house. All but one," he
added, "and he is above suspicion. I will call him."

"Trace, Trace," called the major, going to the door of
Montcalm's room with a lamp.

"Come in," said Montcalm, "I thought I heard some
one calling."

As soon as Ratke had left him, Montcalm sprang up,
scaped together some patches of swamp muck which
bad not been noticed by his unobservant employer, and,
wrapping them in a paper, threw them hastily into one of
his trunks.

Stepping out of doors, be saw the thief-hunters, who
were returning from the club-house.

"Hurrah, boys!" called a young fellow in a white hat;
"everybody get on a horse."

"What is the use of making such a racket?" asked
Green. "You let the thieves know you are coming long
before we get to them."

"I am my own boss," answered the fellow in the white
hat.

Montcalm ran to the horse-barn, unlocked it with the
key which he had obtained from Ratke, bridled the steeds
and led them out before he was rejoined by his employer.
After assisting the major to get on the back of Bill, he
too mounted, and they at once sped eastward toward the
party, which they presently overtook.

The band halted in front of Takum's.

"We want to see where Phleet is," said Green.

Shout after shout was given, but Philetus did not respond.

"There is no use in disturbing him," said the major.
"He has not enterprise enough for a horse-thief."

"Don't be too sure," said Green, proceeding to the front
door and administering several loud taps.

"Who's there?" asked a female voice after the lapse
of a few seconds.

"Where is Phleet?" inquired Green, ignoring her
question.

"He ain't to home," replied Mrs. Takum. "He's
gone to his uncle's."

"There, Ratke," exclaimed Green triumphantly as he
neared the road." He's gone, and right in the middle of
the night. We'll take a look after him."

"It is probable that he is where he hadn't ought to be,"
said a red-whiskered man whose name was Holmes. "I
shouldn't wonder at all if he's with the horses now."

Montcalm, realizing that it would be dangerous to allow
suspicion to fall upon his subordinate, jumped to the
ground and inquired, "What is his name?"

"Phleet," answered Sparks,

Rushing to the door of the house and giving it some
kicks which threatened to tear it from its hinges,
Montcalm shouted,

"Phleet, Phleet, if you don't come, we will kick down
your door and drag you out of bed."

"Yes, I'm a-coming' answered the trembling Philetus.
"Don't be a-gittin' mad now."

"There," said the major, triumphing in his turn, "he
was afraid to answer. He thought you were about to do
him violence."

The band, unanimously agreeing not to disturb Takum
further, continued their course, which they decided to
direct through the swamp, instead of along the road which
branched southward.

"Where have you been hunting?" asked Ratke.

"We've been all along the road by Lyme's," answered
Holmes." We turned the corner east of his house and
went up by Rob Eliot's, and so around to Oakville and
your house. But we have found no trace of the thieves."

"The funniest thing of the whole bisness is that they
didn't leave no tracks," remarked Sparks." There was
a ways that the ground was all scraped up, places two or
three feet across. But it didn't go far, an' then we couldn't
find hide nor hair."

"In my opinion," said Holmes, "we had better stop at
the house of every suspicious character. If we find them
at home, very good. If not, we will suspect them. I
think the men that took those horses are with them now.
When I was a boy I had some traps stolen. There was
a very light snow, and I started to follow the tracks of the
thieves. I happened to meet an old trapper, and he said,
'I'll go with you, but we won't follow these tracks.
There's no telling where they go to. We'll take the back
track.' So we followed the tracks back. They led to a
house not more than half a mile from the trapping ground.
They were two surprised boys, when I caught them walking
into the house with my traps."

"Had we not better divide our party?" asked Ratke.
"Concentration of power is necessary when we wish to
apply a prodigious force at a particular point. But in this
case, where the resistance is apt to be small, we had better
get at the short end of the lever, thus providing for much
agility and extension of movement."

"I can't make out how we can get around any livelier
by dividin' up," said Sparks. "I can move just as fast
when I'm with somebody as when I'm alone."

"I am not to blame," returned Ratke, "because you
cannot see why we can look over more ground by dividing
our force, why we can stand a better chance to catch
the thieves by watching a mile than a rod of territory. I
suppose that they would not dare make any resistance if
we found them."

"There's just where you're mistaken," replied Sparks.
"They come a-chargin' up my lane to beat all, an' they drove
me an' my boy to the house, in spite o' all we could do."

"Yes," said Wingscheut, "tey come a-charchin' up.
Put, provitin' I hat hat a coot man vith me, I coot a kilt
efery tam horse-tief."

"How many of them were there?" inquired Ratke.

"Vell," answered Wingscheut," tere vass two in te first
place. Unt von of 'em he run. Unt, provitin' my short
lec vass crowet out long like it vass started to crow, I coot
a caught 'im. Put I catched te otter von hiplock, Unt I
trowet 'im. Unt, provitin' you ton't pelieve it, you can
ask Sparks. Ten tere vass four more, tey come a-ritin'
up. Unt von of 'em he was a pic feller. He vass proat
unt he vass long, Unt he vass pic all ofer. Unt he hat
plack viskers Come vay town here," said the German,
drawing his hand across his waist. "Vell, ten I let te
feller co vat I hat, Unt I hit te feller vat hat te viskers.
Unt tey run teir horses pack, vippin' 'em like tey vass no
man vant to pe pehint. Provitin' I hat a hat somepoty
vat coot a het 'em off, tey vass cone up horse-tiefs. Unt,
if you vant to know who te feller vass tat I trowet, I can
tell you tat."

"Who was he, Wingscheut?" asked the fellow in the
white hat.

"Vell," answered Wingscheut, "maype you ton't pelief
it, put he vass Panicky,"

The German's statement was greeted with a laugh of
derision which silenced him for some minutes.

"That was a fine animal you lost, Sparks," remarked
Ratke.

"Yes," said Sparks, "she was the best blooded animal
in the county."

"You are mistaken," replied the major. "My Taylor
has better blood than Madge T."

"They don't nobody else think so," returned Sparks.
"Madge T. is by Wellington, an' Wellington is by
Cyclone, an' Cyclone is by Mohammed, an' Mohammed
is by the Duke of Argyle, and he was good for 2:26.
Madge's mother was from Petoskey Chief, an' she could
go in three minutes."

"Taylor has no blood as slow as three minutes," replied
the major. "Taylor's sire was Aleck, he by King Henry,
he by Maurice A., he by the Duke of Argyle. Taylor's
dam was Matilda, sired by Cal, he by MarshalNey, he by
Royal John. Matilda went in 2:28 on Long Island, and
every horseman knows that Aleck could distance Wellington"

"The proof of the puddin' is in the eatin'," said
Sparks. "Madge T. could always go by Taylor."

"Always?" said Ratke. "Sparks, did I not go by you
coming from the donation at Osborne's?"

"Yes," admitted Sparks, "an' didn't you run your
horses, too?"

"Taylor did break up," returned Ratke. "But when
you regain possession of Madge T., bring her over and I
will try conclusions with you."

"I'm afraid we won't race very quick," sorrowfully
observed Sparks.

They had now passed through the swamp and were
approaching a dilapidated barn, beyond which was an
unpainted frame-house.

"Had we better stop here?" inquired one.

"Yes," was the answer. "They're hard customers.
We better rout 'em up."

The crowd, stopping their horses by the front gate,
called the name of Wallace and uttered with it many an
unnecessary and insinuating remark. At last a window
was raised, a head thrust out and Wallace inquired,

What do you want?"

In spite of their want of respect for the place and its
occupants, the party hesitated to answer the gruff
interrogation. But Green, who was unscrupulous in wounding
the feelings of others, boldly replied,

"We wanted to know if you was at home."

"I'm much obliged to you," said Wallace. "I like to
be waked up out of a snooze to hear some half-baked
nuisance ask if I'm to home. I s'pose you want to know
next if the folks is all well."

So saying, he shut down the window, and it was only
after some severe threats that the band succeeded in
bringing him back for a second interview.

"There were some horses stole to-night," said Green,
"and we thought that we would satisfy ourselves that you
was at home."

"You see I am," replied Wallace. "Now I wish you'd
go off and mind your business."

"Where is Ab?" inquired Green.

"Abed, where all honest men ought to be," returned
Wallace. "Got any more questions to ask?"

"We don't know whether he's there or not," said Green.
"Call him up."

"Ab, Ab," cried Wallace, "show these fools you're to
home."

A cord bedstead gave forth a dolorous groaning, and
directly after the face of Ab appeared at a chamber
window,

"Now," said Wallace, "get out of here, or I'll let 
daylight through some of you,"

This injudicious threat brought a shower of stones,
which several substantial citizens, including Ratke and
Holmes, in vain strove to prevent. Two windows were
broken, a piece of one clapboard was split off and knocked
down, and the house received other marks from the rocky
bombardment. It was fortunate for Wallace, that some
of the younger and more hot-headed of the party were at
the barn looking at his horses. They drew out an old
buggy and rummaged through the empty bay and stable.
They even led out the horses to see if one of them
were not Madge T. or Green's Billy in disguise. But the
protruding ribs and low hanging heads were convincing
proofs of the no non-identities of the steeds.

The morning was near at hand, and, tired and discouraged,
the men retraced their steps across the swamp.
"If we could only get our hands on 'em," said a man
from Oakville who had lost a valuable Percheron in the
winter. "I'd like to see 'em hanging to an oak limb."

"The proper way to punish misdemeanor," replied the
major, "is to execute sentence proceeding from a legally
organized tribunal. The decisions of men unaccustomed
to jurisprudence and unrestrained by the statutes are apt
to be hasty. Your conduct toward Wallace illustrates my
statement. You had not the slightest evidence against
him, but you waked him up in the middle of the night,
insulted him, and when he replied to your insults, stoned
his house and threatened to do him bodily injury."

"There didn't any of it come amiss," was the response.
"If he didn't deserve it one time, he did another."

"The greatest and most widespread danger to society,"
said the major, "is lawlessness. It is in the rural
districts, in high places, among the legislators themselves.
Citizens whose general morals are irreproachable, who
read the Bible and strive to abide by its teachings, forget
that they should remain subject to the powers that be.
It matters not whether the act of disobedience be the
spearing of a fish in May, the shooting of a quail out of
season, or the illegal hanging of a horse-thief; the effect
is the same, for it brings contempt of the law. The
insubordination thus fostered, building upon precedents
unintended as such by their authors, walks with mobs in
cities, overthrows the virtue and very existence of states,
and spreads panic and instability among the nations.
We must not be rash in following our projects of vengeance."

"Rash, or no rash," said the Oakville man, "I'd help
put 'em where they wouldn't do any more mischief."

"If am along when they are captured," returned Ratke,
"and any injury is attempted, I will defend them
to the best of my ability."

"That's the talk," exclaimed the fellow in the white hat
who was an admirer of Ratke's courage. "And I'm with
you every time, Major. We'll turn 'em over to the law,
and we won't give 'em anything more than a good sound
drubbing."

"You'll see," replied the obstinate Oakville man. "If
we can't hang 'em, I'll put some cold lead into 'em."

"Afore you hang 'em or shoot 'em," said Jake Sheppard,
"hadn't you better catch 'em?"

At the western extremity of the swamp they stopped.

"Gentlemen," began the major, "we have made as
thorough a search as we could under the circumstances.
But we can do no more without organization. Random
efforts will avail us nothing. In order to recover the stolen
property we must plan, and plans are quite certain of
failure when they are known to a strong and vigilant
enemy. If the measures we adopt are understood throughout
the country, they will be revealed to the thieves. I
think we ought to choose a committee of five to direct our .
movements. This committee should have the power of
making its deliberations secret or public, as it may deem
proper."

"The major is right," said Holmes. "It won't do to
let everybody know just what we are going to do. I move
that we have an executive committee of five."

The motion was passed, and the party chose, as members
of the committee. Holmes, Ratke, Sparks, Green and
Montcalm, of whom the latter was nominated by the
major. Ratke's house was selected as the location for a
temporary committee room, and two o'clock that afternoon
named as the hour of meeting.

The business concluded, the band dispersed. The
major's farm hands, with the exception of Archer, who had
been too sleepy to join the hunt, commenced to do the
chores.

"Now, Trace," said the major after breakfast, "I am
going to take a nap. You were disturbed of your rest.
Come in the house and lie down."

"Thank you," replied Montcalm. "I slept well the
forepart of the night, and I am not very tired."

"I know what is the trouble with you," said Ratke.
"You do not want the gentler sex to suspect that you are
so weak as to feel fatigue. I do not blame you. Go and
lie down in the club-house."


CHAPTER IX.
HOW THE AFFAIR ENDED.

The deliberations of the committee lasted several
hours. Ratke convinced his associates that the horses
were hidden in the swamp, and that, consequently, the roads
surrounding that portion near which the animals disappeared
should be watched. The supervision of these
roads, which had an extent of eight miles, was divided
between the five members of the committee. Each member
was to find enough men systematically to guard the
part apportioned him.

Montcalm cleverly secured the division extending
eastward from Takum's. He also obtained permission of
the major to engage his hands. Avoiding Sheppard and
Wrengell, he secured the services of Daggett, Brown,
Thompson, and that still more valuable acquisition, Archer,
whom he promised some blankets and cigars and instructed
to pass the night as comfortably as possible.

In some bushes near the road Montcalm left the
blankets which he had promised Archer. At Break o'Day
he hired two topers whom he found in Dr. Rorus' drugstore.

Jimmy Martin and old John Davis, the men whom he
engaged, were chronic inebriates. They were harmless
as doves, but not wise as serpents. They worked much
of the time by the day, and money they valued solely as a
means by which liquor was obtained. They accepted the
offer of the committee-man, because it necessitated no
hard work and because it promised better remuneration
than common labor.

Montcalm knew that criticism would be made on his
action in engaging such inefficient sentinels, but he was
in a desperate strait which required the use of desperate
expedients. It was possible for him in a measure to avert
suspicion. In the presence of three listeners he refused
their request to be supplied with whisky, saying that they
must remain sober during the night. Moreover, he told
them that, if they took a drop of the beverage with them,
he should secure other help.

At dusk he posted his guards. Commencing at the
point where his division joined that of Ratke, he placed
his men in the order named: Martin, Davis, Archer,
Takum, Thompson, Brown, Daggett.

These were, as he afterward claimed, all the sentinels
whom he could procure, Archer's position was near a
creek, the laggard waters of which were moving toward
the first of a chain of lakes connected with the Huron
River, Near him and leading toward the highway was an
old road which had been used in the transportation of poles
from the interior of the swamp.

"Here," said Montcalm, drawing the blankets from
some alder bushes where they were concealed, "you
will have a comfortable time."

"I hope so," said Archer. "Planting corn is hard work
when you drive it."

"If you hear any disturbance," ordered Montcalm, "you
call me. You need not stay on your feet continually.
Once an hour, or once every two hours, you can go to the
bridge and back. But do not let any one know that you
are favoring your legs in the least."

"No, I won't," assured Archer. "Folks don't seem to
realize that a laboring man gets tired. You spoke something
about some cigars, Mr. Montcalm,"

"So I did," said Montcalm, handing him a half-dozen
of the desired gifts, which had a superior flavor to which
Archer was unaccustomed. "I must go and look to
Takum. Do you think he will do his duty?"

"Well, I don't know," replied Archer. "The trouble
with Phleet Takum is, he's lazy. He'll never set the
North River afire."

"How are you feeling?" asked Montcalm, as he joined
Takum.

"Not very bumkum," answered the subordinate. "I
was nigh scart to death las' night, I thought they was
a-comin' right into the house an' goin' to drag me out.
They'd hang a feller sure if they got their claws on him."

"You are right," said Montcalm. "But they will not
get their claws on us."

"How be we goin' to help ourselves?" queried Takum.
"They'll hunt the swamp to-morrer, and they'll have
them horses as sure as preachin'."

"We will look to that," said Montcalm,

"I know what we can do," said Philetus. "You an'
me can take 'em out up toward Will Archer. He'll be to
sleep in an hour, an' thunder an' lightin' won't wake him.
He's too lazy to stand for a sign-post."

"We will let them stay for the present," replied Montcalm.
"I want you to do an errand for me."

"'Tain't far to go, is it ?" asked Philetus. "Ever
since las' night I've been afraid o' my shadder."

"Up past Wallace's," said Montcalm, taking two quart
bottles from his pocket. "Carry these bottles under your
jacket, just as you did the chicken. Give one of them to
Davis and one to Martin. But do not say that I sent them.
Make them believe that you came without my knowledge,
and that I would not like it if I knew it. Be particular
about this."

"Yes," assented Philetus. "But what are you goin' to
do with the horses? They'll find them to-morrer as sure as
preachin'."

"The first thing to be done," said Montcalm, "is to go
with the whisky bottles. You must do exactly as I tell
you now. I was patient with you last night, but I will
stand no more such work. I want you to go there and
get back as soon as you can. Remember, this is no time
to steal chickens."

"I ain't had no hankerin' to since las' night," responded
I Takum gloomily. "Gosh all Friday! I wish I was out o'
this. It seems to me I'd git them horses away."

"You recollect that I often had to warn you about talking
too much," said Montcalm. "Do what I tell you and
no more. Go with the bottles, come back and stay here."

"Yes," answered Philetus, "they won't nobody hear a
yip out o' me, only Jimmy an' ole John an' you."

After satisfying himself that his threats and the fear of
popular vengeance had impressed Takum with the
necessity of caution, Montcalm went to his post, which
was east of the swamp.  He held a short conversation with
each of several neighbors who passed him. Leaning over
the broken-down gate in front of the unattractive house,
he talked a few minutes with Wallace, who complained of
the rough treatment which he had received from the band
in pursuit of the horse-thieves. The hour of eleven was
approaching when he proceeded toward the sentinels
whom he had placed at the extremity of his division.
Old John was standing in an attitude of meditation by the
fence, with his hands grasping the top rail and his body
unsteadily waving about. Unconscious that he was
watched, he staggered to a jug and emptied a quart of
liquid, a part into his throat, a greater portion down his
shirt collar. With more volume than melody floated a
song from Jimmy Martin, which showed that Philetus had
faithfully performed his errand. Montcalm on his return
stopped at Wallace's house and knocked. There was no
light inside, but the door shortly opened and he was
admitted.

"I was tired and I went to bed," said Wallace. "I'll
light the lamp. Ab, get up."

The cord bedstead in the chamber groaned, and in a
few minutes Ab appeared.

"We'll take a turn at seven up," said Wallace. "Draw
up your chair, Montcalm."

"Count me in, too. Pa," said a large, rawboned, masculine
looking girl, whose freckled face pushed through the
opening door of an adjoining bedroom.

"Jule," exclaimed Wallace, "who told you to get up? "

"I told myself," replied Julia. "If there's any fun, I'll
have my share, and don't you forget it."

"Those windows ought to be darkened," remarked
Montcalm. "If I should be seen here, I might be
accused of neglecting my duty."

"Here, you, Ab," exclaimed Julia, grabbing her brother
by the shoulders and jerking him backward from his chair,
"run upstairs and get a quilt."

"Don't be too smart, Jule," warned Wallace. "You
may get set back a peg. That girl's a trump," he said to
Montcalm, as Julia disappeared in another room. "I
wish Ab was like her. If she was a boy, they'd have to
stand 'round for her. She and Ab don't always agree.
They fight like cats and dogs, and Jule is about enough
for him."

"Now, Ab," whispered Julia, meeting that individual in
his descent from the stairs, "don't you take that old quilt
in there for Mr. Montcalm to see. It ain't fit. You get
the cat's-paw."

"I don't know nothin' about any cat's-paw," said Ab,
aloud. "You can't make any cat's-paw of me."

"Hatefulness," replied Julia, giving him a push and
running up the stairs.

Julia brought down the cat's-paw and lugged out the
best quilt from the spare bedroom. These she put over
the windows, and at Montcalm's suggestion looked about
for something to fill the keyhole of the back-door. Passing
by carpet rags and old clothing, she went to her box
of choicest finery, and from it selected a red ribbon which
she stuffed into the keyhole, taking pains to leave an end
of it hanging down for her visitor's inspection.

"You and me can beat pa and Ab at seven-up. Can't
we, Mr. Montcalm?" she said, smoothing the pendent
strip of silk.

"They was rough on us last night," said Wallace, shuffling
the cards with dexterity." It beat all how they tore
around. They marked the house all up with rocks, and
turned the horses loose, and run the buggy out. They
hit one of the wheels against something and cracked two
of the spokes, and maybe three. It's a good thing they
went just as they did. If they hadn't, one of them would
have got a lead pill."

"Ab," cried Julia, "quit looking over my hand, or your
ears'Il catch a warmin'."

"Shut up," growled Wallace, his looks betraying an
admiration which the severity of his language did not imply.
"That's a girl such as you don't often see, Montcalm.
She's helped Ab an' me a good deal. She's worked out for
almost every one. She understands about the houses and
barns and horses, and how late the folks say up. That
comes real handy."

"You bet I can help," put in the masculine Julia. "If
anybody where I worked got up to watch pa and Ab, I'd
rattle things around in the house so they could hear.
Clubs is trumps, Trace. Ab, you look out or you'll get
your chops slapped."

"You have engaged in a very profitable business, Mr.
Wallace," said Montcalm.

"You can't tell me anything about the business," said
Wallace." The time I went on the raid over in Eaton I
just got away with my life. They caught the horse and
just missed me. The first thing after I go into it again,
my house is stoned and my property destroyed. Oh, I've
had experience enough."

"This venture is likely to be more profitable," asserted
Montcalm. "You have already received twenty dollars."

"I've earned it too," replied Wallace. "Hacking away
at them tamaracks and wading out to get to 'em ain't any
fun. I noticed you didn't do much of it. It was small
pay I got."

"It was better than raising wheat at a dollar a bushel,"
said Montcalm.

"No one but fools will grow wheat," returned Wallace.
"I can get it easier from barns than from the ground. I
won't have my ribs smashed by plow-handles to raise
provender for some bloated bondholder. The capitalists
have got it all their own way, and they wouldn't give a
cent to keep us from standing to death. The laboring
man has got to look out for himself. The rich ones
won't look out for him. You can take five bushels of
wheat from three or four bins, and it won't be noticed,
but when you take a horse, there's an everlasting
pow-wow."

"You can get your provisions that way," said Montcalm,
"but you will want money for other things."

"Yes, Pa," cried Julia. "And I want some dresses
and rings, and you promised me a breastpin."

"Oh, yes, you want," grumbled Wallace --- "you want a
good deal, but you won't get it. Montcalm, hadn't you
better pay me for them jugs of cider that you had me
take to Jimmy and old John? That's worth thirty cents
a gallon -- sixty cents."

"All right," answered Montcalm, as he felt in his pocket
for some silver. "It is right that you should have it."

Presently Montcalm arose and stated his intention to
leave.

"Not yet," said Julia, "not till you play another game
of euchre. Pa and Ab are ahead of us now,"

"It is impossible for me to stay longer," replied Montcalm.

"Now, we'll see," said Julia. "If I don't let you go, it
ain't impossible."

"You must excuse me this time," said Montcalm.

"No, you don't," cried the unfeminine Julia, making a
spring toward him and throwing her arms about him as he
moved to the door.

"Smack him, Jule," said Wallace, and the daughter
obeyed.

Montcalm, feeling very foolish and thinking that for
once his flattery had brought him not the most pleasant
results, writhed from her grasp and fled from the house.

"You'll come again, will you?" demanded Julia.

"Yes, I certainly shall," answered Montcalm.

"When?" asked Julia --- "next Sunday night? "

"I cannot promise," said Montcalm. "I will come as
soon as possible."

"If you don't come then, there'll be a racket," said
Julia; and with this warning she shut the door.

"That'll make a fine woman for somebody," said 
Wallace. "Wouldn't she be the boss for a night-raider?"

"Perhaps," said Montcalm, "if he wished to get married.
Ab, go up and see how Jimmy and old John get
along, while I take a turn through the swamp."

Montcalm, as he had expected, found Archer wrapped
in the shelter of some bushes, oblivious to hi
surroundings. His visit to Takum convinced him that he need
have no fears concerning the faithfulness of that subordinate.

"Oh, Mr. Montcalm," whispered Philetus, "I ought to
tell you somethin'. Will you be mad if I talk?"

By no means," answered Montcalm. "Talk on. Phleet."

"There's some one a-gittin' ready to muckle us," said
Philetus. "I heard 'em a-talkin' together down yonder,
an' they went in the tamaracks."

"I will go and see," said Montcalm.

His trip was far from satisfactory. There remained not
one of the hired men who had been stationed along the
road. He refrained from relating his discovery to the
Wallaces, who, he feared, might be intimidated by the
revelation.

"They're as quiet as they can be," remarked Ab, as the
three men met." That whisky and cider together laid
'em right out."

"We must hurry," said Montcalm." We have no time
to lose."

They took an angling course toward the swamp. When
they reached the tamaracks they commenced to remove
the sharpened trees in the manner which had so surprised
Philetus. This road was shorter than the one which led
to the hiding-place of the animals from the opposite side.
It extended to an open strip, in the center of which ran
the creek, whose banks were overflowed. A distance below
was a boat which reached nearly across the stream.
The men got into the boat. Montcalm pushed once with
the paddle, and they stopped on the opposite shore.
Twenty minutes later and they were untying the stolen
Billy and Madge T.

The horses, apparently willing to leave the loneliness of
their retreat for a common equine habitation, gave little
trouble until they came to the creek, where they snorted
and stood with their feet braced, yielding only to the 
persuasion of some long whips.

The creek crossed, they were led out, both at once, by
the three men. Wallace suggested that Ab should
rearrange the newly cut path while he and Montcalm
attended to the stolen beasts, but the more prudent
superior would not consider the proposition. With his own
hands he replaced most of the trees and moved others
which the Wallaces did not place to suit him. He scattered
brush and fallen trees plentifully along the route,
not, he said, so much for the purpose of covering the
signs of travel as of inducing the searchers to keep away
from the disguised road by going around the obstacles.

"Maybe you're in love with this work, but I ain't," said
Wallace, as, after leaving the tamaracks, he was tramping
through the water, which reached above his boot tops.
"This is fun. I suppose about to-morrow night the
crowd'll come along and tear down my bam and burn my
shanty over my head."

"We have no expectation of getting caught," replied
Montcalm, expressing a confidence which he did not feel.
"We had better go as silently as we can. Probably we
and the guards are the only ones in the neighborhood
who are astir, but it is best to use caution."

Had Montcalm acquainted the Wallaces with the facts
communicated by Takum he might have been in his 
extremity deserted by his help, whose selfishness would
have allowed no consideration for him to endanger their safety
or that of their property. For this reason he encouraged
them and quieted their fears, using tactics exactly opposite
to those which he employed in the management of
Philetus.

"Ah," said Wallace, when they had arrived at his barn,
"go in and get that crank on the girt."

Ab soon returned, bringing a crank and an iron bar to
which was attached a short chain. Wallace took the bar
and inserted one end of it in a comer of the barn, while
the other protruded through a post which was set near.
In front of the barn was a long stack of hay, which
appeared to rest on the ground. Montcalm in the mean time
had laid down some straight, smoothly hewn rails, thus
forming a tramway between the post and the end of the
stack. Raising some locks of the dried marsh grass, he
fastened an end of a short rope to either side of a car
which supported the stack. Then he joined the short
ropes to a longer one, which he connected with the chain
by a hook, and next he set the crank on an iron bar.
Montcalm and Wallace turned the handle of this 
contrivance, when the stack trundled slowly forward and
stopped within a few feet of the post.

"There," said Wallace. "That's all I'll turn. I won't
break my back over a crank."

The removal of the stack exposed to view a pit which
had been dug underneath the barn. So carefully
performed had been the work of excavation that, when the
entrance of the cellar was covered by the hay, its existence
would not have been suspected by one unacquainted with
the secret; and neither about the barnyard nor in sight
of it was visible a trace of the dirt, the transfer of which
must have occupied some weeks.

"That work was well done," observed Montcalm.

"Thanks and compliments is cheap," answered Wallace.
"I wish I had what pay I ought to have. I'll never work
so cheap again."

The horses did not fancy entering the underground
stable. The colt hung back, braced his feet, and was
induced to go in only by the use of the whip, or as Wallace
termed it, "the persuader."

The stack was pushed to its first position without the
help of a lever, as the ground ascended toward the post.

"You had better get into the house," observed Montcalm.
"You may be seen by some prowlers."

Montcalm visited the drunken guards from Break o'Day.
He shook them, broke their bottles and jugs and
complained bitterly of their neglect. While he was still
shaking and lecturing Martin, he heard a long-drawn yell,
which, as he instantly surmised, proceeded from Archer.
With many misgivings he sped toward the spot from which
the disturbance issued. Justice was on his track.
Takum's only guaranty of trustworthiness was his fear;
Wallace cared for self alone, and here was a new trouble,
which he could barely locate, much less define. In front
of Wallace's barn he met Archer, who was much excited.

"They've gone," said Archer. "They've got away with
the horses."

"How do you know?" asked Montcalm, with an apprehension
which he succeeded in hiding.

"Because I saw 'em," replied Archer," and I thought
I'd come up here and tell you."

Montcalm soon decided on his course of action. He
would tell the Wallaces of Archer's disclosure, and prepare,
when necessity demanded, to flee from the danger which
menaced him.

"Where did the horses go?" he inquired.

"Up the road," answered Archer.
"Up the road!" ejaculated Montcalm in astonishment.
"Yes," said Archer, "they come out of the old road in
the swamp where they used to haul fence-posts through."

Montcalm, relieved, though perplexed, left Archer on
his beat and went to the station of Philetus, which was
deserted. He called loudly, but two or three minutes
elapsed before a faint response came from the swamp.
Making his way through the tamaracks, which at that
point were large and comparatively far apart, he found
Takum, who was coming to meet him.

"Oh, Mr. Montcalm!" exclaimed Philetus, "somebody
got 'em and' they'll find us! We're gone up! Great
Augustus! I'm a goin' to Californy!"

"We are all right," consoled Montcalm. "Did you
not expect that I would get the horses? If I had not
taken them from the swamp, we would surely have
been found out."

"Was that all?" said Philetus. "I heard somebody
a-comin' through that road, an' I thought they'd found
the horses. They raised a great hellaballoo an' run
up this way. I didn't think you'd make such a noise,
but it ain't none o' my bisness, an' I won't talk about it."

"Get back to your post," said Montcalm. "You must
let no one suspect that you were frightened."

In the road Montcalm discovered the horses' tracks,
and, following them along the highway, which was quite
deserted, he ascertained to his surprise that they led
to Ratke's barns.

As he was passing the club-house on the way to the
family dwelling, his attention was arrested by the sound
of voices and laughter, and as he stopped, he overheard
the words of Daggett, who was saying:

"Didn't we have a time of it waking him, though? I 
poked him with a pole two minutes before he give a
grunt. But he flew around lively enough after he did
get up."

By nine o'clock in the forenoon a body of men and boys,
to the number of two hundred, had assembled at Ratke's.
Carrying a variety of arms, including, rifles, shotguns,
revolvers, rusty swords and muskets with bayonets attached,
they proceeded in a body to the swamp, where they
separated in order to facilitate their search.

The old men stayed on the hard land, while the younger
portion of the crowd, among which were a few boys, struck
out boldly for the tamaracks. But their ardor, as well as
their persons, was dampened by the water, which for the
greater part of the year encircled the great swamp, and
against which, at that time, the highest rubber boots were
an imperfect protection. The water poured over the 
boot-tops of the men. The brush scratched the bare legs of
the boys, who had rolled up their trousers. All were
annoyed by the bushes, which in many places were so thick
that vision was limited to a distance of a few feet. One
by one, wet, tired and discouraged, the searchers returned
to the up-land, asserting that a horse would not venture
where they had been, and that no one but old Ratke would
have imagined the thing. With their zeal for the capture
of the thieves considerably lessened, they returned to their
homes, disgusted with their own folly in being drawn into
any scheme projected by the inventor of the New Jerusalem.

Jimmy Martin and old John Davis boasted of how they
secured the liquor in spite of Montcalm's precautions.
This was an incident of the hunt at which the people
laughed heartily, and Montcalm was glad to be subjected
to ridicule instead of suspicion.


CHAPTER X.
TWO KINDS OF BUD BLOSSOM.

The author whose ambition is that of the rural historian
will not attempt scientifically to analyze the causes
which led to the circumstances herein to be described.

To the reader it may seem improbable, but certain it is
that John Wrengell was received with more favor by the
Ratkes. The traditions which might have thrown light
upon the subject were imperfectly kept. Brown, Thompson
and Daggett, excellent authorities on farm-life and the
hunt after the horse-thieves, forgot those trifling incidents,
of which reminiscences would have assisted us in our
speculation.

John and Manie began to be better acquainted.

Wrengell's manners and habits were undergoing a
change, whether for the better is a question on which the
student and the man of fashion would differ. He was
entering the period which at some age is reached by most
men, the epoch of the anxiety to improve the personal
attractions. Had he possessed an opportunity he would
have been tempted to barter a part of his hard-earned
learning for a more perfect understanding of proprieties.
At the church he saw Fred Loomis, and envied him his
style. Dr. Rorus' clerk was not brilliant. Indeed, he
seemed to be an automatic, imitative body, wound up for
life without the troublesome complication of a brain. His
walk was unmistakably that of the young man who is assured
of his gentility, and his hat was tipped at exactly
the right angle to be fashionable.

John, before going to Oakville to purchase a suit of
clothes, took observations of Loomis' apparel. The
dress suit, his first extravagance, was praised by the
clothier as a perfect fit. John did not mistrust that the
trousers were too short, or that the loose coat hung in
wrinkles about his shoulders.

The Sunday morning after the important purchase he
took extraordinary pains with his attire. But the clothes
brush was filled with the lint of the club-house, and the
blacking-brush, which had been used on greasy boots,
would not impart to bis shoes a perfect shine.

He was before the mirror, trying to smooth down an
obstinate lock of hair, when Daggett thus addressed him:

"Fix it up nice, John. I would if I was in your place.
If you go in the parlor now, you'll find her alone. She's
singing, and all the rest of them are in the sitting-room."

John determined to make a terrible rejoinder, but before
he prepared it, he was assaulted by Brown and
Thompson, and he was unable to reply to them all. For
the purpose of escaping the notice of his fellows he went
to the orchard, and walked around it in pretended abstraction
till he came to its western side. There, seated
on the fence, he chewed splinters from the rails and waited
for the keen-eyed Daggett to turn his attention elsewhere,
so that his arrival in front of the house might not be seen
by the fun-loving hired man. When this occupation became
monotonous, he slid from his position and started
across the orchard.

The warm May days had strewn verdure over the limbs
of the apple-trees. Leaves had pushed out, and buds had
developed to blossoms. Dressed in pink and white, the
blossoms, stirred by a strong wind, posed in different
attitudes, and at each ample swing cast off a portion of their
loveliness. A few rods ahead of John was Manie, standing
with her back toward him beneath a tree. About her,
as if in homage, were falling the dismembered blossoms.
As the wind lifted her hair and threw a shower of the
white leaves on her shoulders, he thought it would be no
misfortune, if he and she, like Una and the red-cross
knight, could be lost in a wood,

    "Whose lofty trees, yclad with summer's pride,
     Did spread so broad that Heaven's light did hide."

She Stretched her hand upward, trying to get possession
of a bough which was beyond her reach.

"Let me help you," said John, stepping quickly to her
side. "I will pull it down, and you can make the
selection you wish."

John purposely held the bough so high that, to reach it,
she was obliged to raise herself on tiptoe and remain very
close to him until the desired flowers were obtained.

"I wanted these," said Manie, "because they are fresher
than the others. These are just opened, while most of
them are ready to fall. What do you think of our apple
grove, Mr. Wrengell?"

"I think it is a kingly court," replied John, "in which
reigns an absolute monarch. The advent of summer
holds perfect sway over our fancy. Of all periods the
beginning of a progressive era is most interesting. When
a state or system has been established a considerable
length of time, it is no longer able to draw the strongest
admiration; but awakening life is never without its charms.
That line of woods is now in its richest beauty. There
can be nothing more picturesque than the spot where
that dark green tree is set diagonally in front of the less
deeply tinted background. As its fellows advance to the
same stage of development, the view will grow less 
attractive. The reign of this scene around us over human
sympathies is transitory, for those white petals are now
falling. In a few days the trees will be clad in simple
green, and in the autumn they must surrender their
authority and yield tribute to those whom they have ruled."

"The summer brings to the orchard little loss of
authority," said Manie. "You may prefer blossoms to
fruit, but Phleet Takum's little boys will not neglect yonder
tree when it is loaded with yellow pippins. There are
Seven of our hired men. Only one of them goes a rod
out of his way to look at leaves and flowers, but they will
all come trooping over here as soon as they are assured
that harvest-apples are ripe. How many of the farmers
stay in their orchards all day now? How many of them
will keep away from them when it is time to gather fruit?
You judge of an entire force by its application in one
place. It has not the universality which you claim or
imply that it possesses."

John was in a dilemma. He believed that he ought to
continue the argument in order to appear to advantage
before Manie. But he had learned that in a nervous
condition, such as he labored under at that moment, he was
certain to make statements which were fatal to his logic.
Furthermore, he might, under the influence of excitement,
utter some discourteous remark, which would nullify any
good impression which he might have made.

"Are you going to meeting to-day?" he asked as Manie
moved toward the house.

"I think so," answered Manie; "we usually go."

"Can I go too?" inquired John, while his shaking
fingers were picking at a blossom-covered apple-limb.

"Of course you can," answered Manie. "Who is to
prevent you? "

"But," persisted John, "can I go with you?"

"If there is room in the buggy you can," said Manie.
"Nora, Aunt Maria and I can sit behind, and perhaps
Uncle James will let you ride with him and Mr. Montcalm."

"No," exclaimed John in desperation, while a flush
overspread his face, "I mean will you go alone with me?"

"Oh!" said Manie, "that is a different matter. Yes, I
will go!'

John would have expressed his appreciation of the favor
which he was receiving, but he had not mastered gallantry,
and he was overwhelmed with a sense of his inefficiency
as an escort. That which he could not speak he could
act. Regard drew him near her, and the fear of repulse
drew him back, so that he walked in a zigzag line across
the orchard. He pushed aside branches of trees for her
to pass; and, coming to some bars, he threw down all of
them but the bottom one, which was caught at the end.
He was tugging away at the unyielding board when Manie
put an end to his strenuous efforts by stepping quickly
over it.

John left Manie at the house and hurriedly went to the
road. He did not dream of the ridicule he was preparing
for himself by his excited manner and walk.

The drive to church furnished him the keenest enjoyment
he had ever known. He was the escort of the most
cultured, the most esteemed lady of that community.
Samson-like, he was rending the bonds of his evil fortune
and bearing away the Gazan gate which shut him within the
city of disrepute. From the pit of degradation he raised 
his head above its mouth and viewed the hills of
respectability, the borders of which he hoped soon to cross.
He could think of nothing to say, and, indeed, he was too
happy to talk. The wind placed invigorating touches on his
face, and the wood to the south, with its thin light-colored
drapery and its flank of dark tamaracks, sent to him an
inspriation which found fellowship with his already awakened
feelings.

At the church he was unpleasantly reminded of his abstraction
by the discovery that he had driven too far from the platform
for Manie conveniently to alight. Wishing to atone for his
lack of skill by a show of agility, he endeavored to clear
the distance by a leap, but as his feet caught in the lines,
he was thrown on his hands and knees; and it was only by
very energetic and undignified scrambling that he escaped
falling to the ground. The boys and young men on the steps
contented themselves by exchanging a few knowing looks. When,
however, John had hitched his horse and awkwardly passed into
the church, they commented freely on his behavior.

After this Sunday Ratke's favor toward Wrengell began to wane
and Mrs. Grippin's began to increase. She admitted that John
was a very good musician. He scraped his feet before he came
into the house. He did not always wipe his hands in the
center of the towel. He was, moreover, careful about
disfiguring the butter-roll, and did not take more of the
butter than he wanted on his plate.

It was the time of May-baskets, and parties hanging these
souvenirs had been about the neighborhood at night.

John gathered some flowers from the swale which joined the
swamp. He tied them with a ribbon which he had bought for that
purpose, attached to them some poetry, hung them on the knob
of the front door, rapped and ran to the road. These were the
stanzas which Manie read:

    "We dwelt amid a marshy haunt,
        Where youthful oaks and elms bend low,
    Where shade meets sun, where breezes pant,
        Where plants their fellows' secret know,
        And laugh with joy and sympathize with woe.
    
    "Rude were the hands which bore us hence
        From that loved spot where we were born.
    The lofty tamarack laments,
        The grieving poplar quakes, forlorn,
        The grass blade bows its head to weep at morn
        
    "Death to the exiled flowers must steal.
        Oh, let us not be spurned, but given
    Cold water and this boon to feel,
        That we from home have not been driven,
        And on us falls the soothing rain of Heaven."


CHAPTER XI.
THE ROOT OF AN EVIL.

The summer was remarkably hot. July had arrived. The
great swamp which, except in August, was usually too wet
for a well-clad traveler to pass through with dry feet,
was almost ungirded of its water-belt.

Ratke and his sister were preparing to start for Sharptown.
The preceding sentence should be amended by the addition
that Mrs. Grippin was actively flying about, while the
major was conning a treatise of Lord Shaftesbury's.

"I'd like to know where you got the money to pay Green?",
said the housekeeper. "You hadn't ought to be afraid of
me. I'm not going to tattle about it. You've got secret
all to once, haven't you?"

"I believe in maintaining silence when the occasion demands
it," replied the major, " and it does in the present
instance."

"I don't care so much who you got the money of," said Mrs.
Grippin, "as what you had to do to get it. You said you
couldn't find it, and you'd hunted all over, and you didn't
tell me any different till the other day. I'm afraid you
had to do something desperate."

I found the money to pay Green," said Ratke. "Further than
that I can tell you nothing."

"James Ratke," said Mrs. Grippin, breaking into tears, "I
have slaved for you half life. I have looked to your
interests when you were careless of them. I have cooked for
your hired men and scrubbed floors till I have nearly broken
myself down. Look at my hands, James Ratke! They have been
crooked doing your washing and mending. I never wanted any
pay. I only wanted to know that you was getting along, and
that I could have a place to stay when I was so old I couldn't
work. And now, when the home is going, you won't even tell
me how long before I am turned out into the streets."

"We will not believe that we are going to lose the place,"
returned the major soothingly. "An honorable man holds
the claim against it. I did not mean to hurt your feelings,
Maria, or to manifest a lack of confidence in you. I
appreciate what you have done for me and I mean to repay
you, as far as I can, by making you comfortable in your
old age."

It was seldom that Mrs. Grippin was absent from the
farm. This rare occurrence was welcomed with rapture
by more than one whom it concerned. Archer was at
liberty to help himself to bread and butter, whenever he
chose. Brown and Thompson could have each two pieces
of pie without encountering a savage glance which
destroyed their appetites. Nora sat by Montcalm and talked
and laughed with him in a way which would have shocked
her proper aunt had that lady been present.

"Come in this way. Trace," she cried, rushing to the
parlor. "It's cool in here. Oh my! isn't this a nice
place? I'll shut the door," she said as Montcalm entered.
"Then they can't hear what we say. Oh, Trace,
we haven't had a chance to talk alone for a good while.
Aunt Maria does watch us so close. I'm glad she's gone.
It's the day Uncle James promised to pay Uncle Si, and
he's gone after the money. I tell you it's a lot of it. It's
over $14,000."

"I should think Mr. Green would be afraid to have
such a sum brought to his house," said Montcalm, "seeing
that there are thieves about."

"He had to have it brought here," explained Nora.
"It was to be paid in this house, and then he takes a good
deal of pains not to be robbed. He has the strongest
locks on his house, a lock on every door and a burglar
alarm besides."

"That is caution itself," said Montcalm. "It is not
often that a house has a lock on every door. Generally
some of them are bolted."

"Oh, yes," said Nora, "that is the way with Uncle Si's.
He fastens the cellar door with a hook. I remember
hooking that when I was a little girl. Then the hook was
higher than my head. Now it comes up just to my shoulders."

"You have forgotten," said Montcalm. "It lacks a trifle of
being as high as your shoulder."

"What do you know about it?" asked Nora. "You never were
there."

I know by intuition," said Montcalm. "Second sight, perhaps
you would call it."

"Oh, bother your second sight," returned Nora. "Don't try
to fool me in that way. Are you going away before long?"

"Perhaps," answered Montcalm. "I have thought of telling
the major that I can work for him no longer."

"And you'll send for me, as you said you would, when you
get the store started." So saying, Nora sat in his lap and
gave his collar a playful shake.

Montcalm looked down pityingly into her face. He had 
not at first meant to win her affections. Feeling his
power, he had determined to test it, and its exercise
had made her his slave. The lies which he had told her
were for the purpose of giving her temporary satisfaction,
but they had doubled the difficulty in disentangling
himself without giving her the pain which he dreaded
to inflict.

"Do not count too much on the store," said Montcalm.
"I am not now in the best of circumstances, and it may
be years before I can start in business."

"Why!" exclaimed Nora, a disappointed look creeping
across her face, "didn't you mean what you said?"

"Oh, yes," answered Montcalm, as he felt unable to
use the candor with which he had resolved to speak,
"we will go just as we have intended. But be patient."

"It wouldn't need so much to start a store in a little
village like Break o'Day," said Nora. "You say you've
got a few hundred. So have I. I've got one uncle and
an aunt that's well off. Right here are two checks,
Trace, " she said, coming from her bedroom with some
papers. "They are for $500. Take them now. I won't
want them. Aunt Emma gave me one and Uncle Si the
other. You see I can help, and I feel just like
helping to get along." 

"No, no," expostulated Montcalm, thoroughly despising
his own deceit. "I will not. I hope myself to earn the
money soon."

"Oh, yes, take them," urged Nora. "It don't make any
difference to me who has them, only I want to show you
that I won't be a hindrance to you."

"No, you will not," said Montcalm sorrowfully. "Keep
your money, Nora. By and by we can share our property
equally. But wait until we are married."

At the sound of the last word Nora's face lighted up,
and she pressed closer to him.

"When will that be. Trace?" she inquired. "We have
talked about it, but we have never set the time. Once in"
a while I think it never will be."

"We must not be impatient," replied Montcalm. "It
may be a year or two before I am ready to marry. If the
delay interferes with your happiness, I will release you
from your promise."

"You are tired of me," said Nora, her voice betraying
her disappointment. "I was afraid you would be. But I
won't beg for your favor if I die. I'll keep away from
you, and I won't bother you any more."

"What is my little girl thinking of?" asked the
miserable Montcalm, drawing her back to him. "Does she
imagine I am tired of her because I will not take her
money? I could not do that, Nora. I would hate myself
for such an act. We can wait awhile. Neither of us are
old. I will prepare a home for you, and then I want you.
We will be happy then."

"Oh, I hear Aunt Maria talking in the dining-room!"
exclaimed Nora. "She mustn't suspect that we've been
in here together. Quick, Trace, slip right out of this door.
I'll toss your hat out of the kitchen."

"You go in, Major," said Montcalm, as he neared
Ratke. "I will care for the team."

"You may if you like," answered the major. "I am
very hungry."

Mrs. Grippin suspected that many misdemeanors had
been committed during her absence. Nora should have
been taking care of the dishes instead of sitting in the parlor.
The men had not scraped their feet when they came into
the house, they had left the butter in bad shape, and some
of them had taken two pieces of pie.

"Don't be so long," said the housekeeper, as her
brother leisurely entered the house. "He'll be here in a
little while. You want to be ready to do business with
him when he comes."

"Precipitancy," replied the major, "is a common evil,
and I intend that it shall not ruin me. If you think twice
before you speak or act, you avoid many mistakes which
you would otherwise make."

"Yes," answered Mrs. Grippin, "but if you are always
thinking and never acting, it don't amount to much. I
wish you'd eat so I can get my work done up."

After dinner the major went to the bam to talk with
Montcalm.

"Come, Nora," said Mrs. Grippin. "Take hold and
clear up the table. You're not very tired. It don't
hurt you any more to work than it does me."

"Some one is at the door," said Manie.

"Come in," said the housekeeper, as she ushered their
expected guest into the parlor.

"Are the folks all well?" asked Green, with a degree of
politeness to which he was unaccustomed.

"Well enough," returned Mrs. Grippin shortly. "James
will be in in a few minutes. You can make yourself
comfortable until he comes."

Partly obeying the directions of the housekeeper. Green
sat down, but he did not make himself comfortable. He
arose to his feet, and strode about the room in an oval
circuit, unconsciously following the same path through
each evolution. When this became monotonous, he resumed
his seat and tapped the floor alternately with his
heel and his toe. As the major entered the apartment,
he wsa again walking the floor.

"Why, Uncle Si," said Nora, following closely after
Ratke, "you haven't been here in a long time. Why
don't you ever come around?"

"Oh, I don't get around to visit much," returned Green.
"I have a good deal to do."

"I should think you have a good deal to do," said
Nora. "You never go anywhere only on business. If I
was worth so much as you, I'd call around after my
friends. You don't have so much leisure as lots of poor
folks."

"That's what makes 'em poor," returned Green.
"They have too much leisure."

"How much do I owe you?" inquired Ratke, with a
mixture of dignity and civility.

"Fourteen thousand five hundred and forty-two dollars
and ninety-two cents," answered Green.

"You are mistaken," said Ratke. "The amount is
fourteen thousand five hundred and forty-two dollars
forty-one cents, four and sixty-three hundredths mills."

"There ain't any mistake on my side," returned Green.
"Collins is as good a lawyer as there is in Jackson, and
he figured it."

"Mr. Collins may be good authority," Ratke rejoined;
"but the figures are better, and I will show them to you."

"Oh, I'm satisfied with Collins's work," said Green.
"He's always done my business, and he's always straight."

"No doubt you are satisfied," responded the major,
"because his mistake, if sanctioned by me, would put a
half dollar in your pocket. I oppose it, not for the
half-dollar, but for the principle which is involved."

"I'll take my mortgage and go home," said Green.
"If I can't get what belongs to me in one way, I will in
another."

"Maria," called the major, "you and Manie come here.
Here," he continued, addressing Green, "in the presence
of three witnesses, I offer you fourteen thousand five
hundred forty-two dollars, forty-one cents, four and
sixty-three hundredths mills, or, on account of the
difficulty in making change, fourteen thousand five
hundred forty-two dollars and forty-two cents."

"What is this about?" inquired Mrs. Grippin, looking
in turn from Ratke to Green.

"He wants to cheat me out of fifty-one cents," replied
Green. "I tell him I'll take the mortgage and go home
first."

The money-lender shrank back as he saw the change in
the aspect of Mrs. Grippin. Her form straightened, her
upper lip rose with an expression of ferocity, her long
fingers gripped together like the talons ot a destructive
bird.

"You, Josiah Green!" she said slowly. "You talk of
cheating, you that never did anything but cheat!"

"Oh, Maria," expostulated the major, "remember he is
a guest in our house. We must not disgrace ourselves by
treating him with discourtesy."

"You can't run me, James Ratke," retorted the angry
woman, "if you do run the rest of the town. 'Tend to
your own business, and I'll 'tend to mine. You bought a
cow of him. Si Green, when you couldn't get trusted 
anywhere else. You got money to help you with the mortgage 
on your place, and you cheated him out of it. You got
wheat of him when your family was sick, and you said
they'd starve if they didn't have help. Do you remember
you came here and said you'd like to get a few pounds of
butter, and you'd pay for it the next week.' You've never
said a word to me about that butter from that day to this.
Now I want you to settle that account."

"I won't bother about the half dollar. Major," said
Green. "Have it as you want it."

"Very well," said Ratke, "here is the full amount."

"When do you intend to pay me for that butter?" asked
Mrs. Grippin, as Green was retreating to the road. "Si
Green, you get up in church and speak, and say you are
glad you chose the better way. What better way do you
mean.' A better way to smouse folks is the only way
you've chose since I've known you. That's all the lingo
you've got, and you can't make up another. I sit where I
can see you in meeting. If you don't pay me for that
butter, I'll look you right in the face as you speak. Then
say you've chose the better way if you can."

"How much is it?" asked Green, turning suddenly
about.

"There was four pounds and a half of the butter,"
answered Mrs. Grippin, "and it was twenty cents a pound.
That would he ninety cents. I'll call it six shillings."

"Here," said Green feeling that he deserved credit for
generosity, "here is a dollar. That makes us square."

Fearing that Mrs. Grippin would make another demand,
the penurious farmer hastened to the road, untied his
horse by a few quick, nervous jerks and drove rapidly
away.

Ten minutes afterward, in response to the call of a
neighbor, Ratke went out to the gate and received a
letter, the body of which, written by Durgenson, is
subjoined:

"I dislike to speak about the sum I lent you. but the
trouble is I am hard-pushed. I have got to have $4,000
the 24th of this month. After that I will get along two
or three hears without any more. Have it ready for me
the afternoon of the 23rd, when I will come to your
house."


-----
XII. The Well with a Barrel Curb. 112 XIII. A Daniel come to
    Judgment. 123 XIV. Montcalm finds Dante inaccurate 134 XV. Ivanhoe Criticised by a Master 147 XVI. Mrs. Boyle's
    House 153 XVII. What Happened in the Swamp 162 XVIII. Break O'Day 170 XIX. The Village has a Sensation 179 XX. A
    Good Samaritan 189 XXI. Controversy and Reminiscence 198 XXII. Action is Equal to Reaction 211 XXIII. One Hour of
    Bliss 223 XXIV. A Beethoven and a Gibbon in one 233 XXV. Durgenson Demands his Money 243 XXVI. Ramoth Gilead 252
    XXVII. Ruin 256 XXVIII. John hears an Account of his Adventure. 265 XXIX. Among the Invalids 271 XXX. The Beginning
    of Mystery. 280 XXXI. Awakening. 293 XXXII. Liber Sextus 306 XXXIII. The House Divided against Itself 317 XXXIV.
    Verdure rising from the Ashes 328 XXXV. Stray Locals 337 XXXVI. In the Orchard Again. 339
