6000 Unrecognized words

THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O'DAY
    Line 1 - Query word CHRONICLES

BOSTON
    Line 6 - Query word BOSTON

ARENA PUBLISHING COMPANY
    Line 7 - Query word PUBLISHING

Copley Square
    Line 8 - Query word Copley

Copyrighted 1893
    Line 13 - Query word Copyrighted

All rights reserved.
    Line 16 - Query word rights

All rights reserved.
    Line 16 - Query word reserved

DEDICATION.
    Line 22 - Query word DEDICATION

My readers who are familiar with the traditions preserved in this
    Line 24 - Query word readers

My readers who are familiar with the traditions preserved in this
    Line 24 - Query word familiar

My readers who are familiar with the traditions preserved in this
    Line 24 - Query word preserved

history know one woman who is beloved by rich and poor, a comforter
    Line 25 - Query word beloved

history know one woman who is beloved by rich and poor, a comforter
    Line 25 - Query word comforter

of the afflicted, a friend of the friendless, a mother of the
    Line 26 - Query word afflicted

of the afflicted, a friend of the friendless, a mother of the
    Line 26 - Query word friendless

motherless, in prosperity without arrogance, in sorrow without
    Line 27 - Query word motherless

motherless, in prosperity without arrogance, in sorrow without
    Line 27 - Query word arrogance

motherless, in prosperity without arrogance, in sorrow without
    Line 27 - Query word sorrow

complaint. To Mrs. Fidelia Gibbins, whose character suggested the
    Line 28 - Query word complaint

complaint. To Mrs. Fidelia Gibbins, whose character suggested the
    Line 28 - Query word Fidelia

complaint. To Mrs. Fidelia Gibbins, whose character suggested the
    Line 28 - Query word Gibbins

Mrs. Boyle of my story, this volume is respectfully dedicated.
    Line 29 - Query word Boyle

Mrs. Boyle of my story, this volume is respectfully dedicated.
    Line 29 - Query word dedicated

  XIII.   A Daniel come to Judgment
    Line 48 - Query word XIII

  XIII.   A Daniel come to Judgment
    Line 48 - Query word Daniel

  XIV.    Montcalm finds Dante inaccurate
    Line 49 - Query word XIV

  XIV.    Montcalm finds Dante inaccurate
    Line 49 - Query word Dante

  XIV.    Montcalm finds Dante inaccurate
    Line 49 - Query word inaccurate

  XV.     Ivanhoe Criticised by a Master
    Line 50 - Query word XV

  XV.     Ivanhoe Criticised by a Master
    Line 50 - Query word Ivanhoe

  XV.     Ivanhoe Criticised by a Master
    Line 50 - Query word Criticised

  XVI.    Mrs. Boyle's House
    Line 51 - Query word XVI

  XVI.    Mrs. Boyle's House
    Line 51 - Query word Boyle's

  XVII.   What Happened in the Swamp
    Line 52 - Query word XVII

  XVIII.  Break O'Day
    Line 53 - Query word XVIII

  XIX.    The Village has a Sensation
    Line 54 - Query word XIX

  XIX.    The Village has a Sensation
    Line 54 - Query word Sensation

  XX.     A Good Samaritan
    Line 55 - Query word XX

  XX.     A Good Samaritan
    Line 55 - Query word Samaritan

  XXI.    Controversy and Reminiscence
    Line 56 - Query word XXI

  XXI.    Controversy and Reminiscence
    Line 56 - Query word Reminiscence

  XXII.   Action is Equal to Reaction
    Line 57 - Query word XXII

  XXII.   Action is Equal to Reaction
    Line 57 - Query word Reaction

  XXIII.  One Hour of Bliss
    Line 58 - Query word XXIII

  XXIII.  One Hour of Bliss
    Line 58 - Query word Bliss

  XXIV.   A Beethoven and a Gibbon in one
    Line 59 - Query word XXIV

  XXIV.   A Beethoven and a Gibbon in one
    Line 59 - Query word Beethoven

  XXIV.   A Beethoven and a Gibbon in one
    Line 59 - Query word Gibbon

  XXV.    Durgenson Demands his Money
    Line 60 - Query word XXV

  XXVI.   Ramoth Gilead
    Line 61 - Query word XXVI

  XXVII.  Ruin
    Line 62 - Query word XXVII

  XXVIII. John hears an Account of his Adventure
    Line 63 - Query word XXVIII

  XXVIII. John hears an Account of his Adventure
    Line 63 - Query word Adventure

  XXIX.   Among the Invalids
    Line 64 - Query word XXIX

  XXIX.   Among the Invalids
    Line 64 - Query word Invalids

  XXX.    The Beginning of Mystery
    Line 65 - Query word XXX

  XXX.    The Beginning of Mystery
    Line 65 - Query word Mystery

  XXXI.   Awakening
    Line 66 - Query word XXXI

  XXXII.  Liber Sextus
    Line 67 - Query word XXXII

  XXXII.  Liber Sextus
    Line 67 - Query word Liber

  XXXII.  Liber Sextus
    Line 67 - Query word Sextus

  XXXIII. The House Divided against Itself
    Line 68 - Query word XXXIII

  XXXIV.  Verdure rising from the Ashes
    Line 69 - Query word XXXIV

  XXXIV.  Verdure rising from the Ashes
    Line 69 - Query word Ashes

  XXXV.   Stray Locals
    Line 70 - Query word XXXV

  XXXV.   Stray Locals
    Line 70 - Query word Locals

  XXXVI.  In the Orchard Again
    Line 71 - Query word XXXVI

varied geography. In contrast to the sterile hills and grand,
    Line 78 - Query word geography

varied geography. In contrast to the sterile hills and grand,
    Line 78 - Query word contrast

varied geography. In contrast to the sterile hills and grand,
    Line 78 - Query word sterile

varied geography. In contrast to the sterile hills and grand,
    Line 78 - Query word grand

pictured rocks of the northern peninsula, the productive farms in the
    Line 79 - Query word pictured

pictured rocks of the northern peninsula, the productive farms in the
    Line 79 - Query word peninsula

pictured rocks of the northern peninsula, the productive farms in the
    Line 79 - Query word productive

pictured rocks of the northern peninsula, the productive farms in the
    Line 79 - Query word farms

southern part of the state form an area of fertility unbroken save by
    Line 80 - Query word southern

southern part of the state form an area of fertility unbroken save by
    Line 80 - Query word fertility

southern part of the state form an area of fertility unbroken save by
    Line 80 - Query word unbroken

a few patches of sand and some irregular strips of swamp. The largest
    Line 81 - Query word irregular

and most remarkable of these swamps passes from north to south
    Line 82 - Query word remarkable

and most remarkable of these swamps passes from north to south
    Line 82 - Query word passes

through Ingham and Jackson counties, extending beyond the borders of
    Line 83 - Query word Ingham

Shiawassee and Lenawee.
    Line 84 - Query word Shiawassee

Shiawassee and Lenawee.
    Line 84 - Query word Lenawee

This marshy territory is covered by a motley growth of willows,
    Line 86 - Query word motley

This marshy territory is covered by a motley growth of willows,
    Line 86 - Query word willows

huckleberries, spruce, tamaracks and a few pines, in places so thin
    Line 87 - Query word pines

as to afford no inconvenience to a footman, in other places so thick
    Line 88 - Query word afford

as to afford no inconvenience to a footman, in other places so thick
    Line 88 - Query word inconvenience

as to afford no inconvenience to a footman, in other places so thick
    Line 88 - Query word footman

as to be almost inaccessible. Horse-thieves, escaped convicts, and
    Line 89 - Query word inaccessible

as to be almost inaccessible. Horse-thieves, escaped convicts, and
    Line 89 - Query word convicts

deserters from the army, have successively sought its seclusion; and
    Line 90 - Query word deserters

deserters from the army, have successively sought its seclusion; and
    Line 90 - Query word successively

deserters from the army, have successively sought its seclusion; and
    Line 90 - Query word seclusion

never has the asylum betrayed the confidence of one who trusted in
    Line 91 - Query word asylum

never has the asylum betrayed the confidence of one who trusted in
    Line 91 - Query word betrayed

its hospitality.
    Line 92 - Query word hospitality

On the western side of the swampy belt lay a farm, which, according
    Line 94 - Query word swampy

to the census of 1870, shared, with but four others in the State, the
    Line 95 - Query word census

distinction of containing one thousand acres.
    Line 96 - Query word acres

The owner of this piece of property for many years was Major Ratke,
    Line 98 - Query word owner

an officer of the Mexican war. He was ambitious of acquiring
    Line 99 - Query word ambitious

an officer of the Mexican war. He was ambitious of acquiring
    Line 99 - Query word acquiring

the world. He was especially desirous of becoming famous as a great
    Line 101 - Query word famous

inventor, and to this end he had constructed a large quantity of
    Line 102 - Query word constructed

strange machinery. In his inventions he aimed at novelty, and so well
    Line 103 - Query word inventions

strange machinery. In his inventions he aimed at novelty, and so well
    Line 103 - Query word novelty

did he succeed in this respect that even his bitterest enemies never
    Line 104 - Query word bitterest

did he succeed in this respect that even his bitterest enemies never
    Line 104 - Query word enemies

gothic house working at an abstruse problem in mathematical
    Line 108 - Query word abstruse

philosophy, of which he was excessively fond. It was hard, however,
    Line 109 - Query word excessively

philosophy, of which he was excessively fond. It was hard, however,
    Line 109 - Query word fond

for him to give it his undivided attention. Troubles had been
    Line 110 - Query word undivided

foreclosed, and his hired help, never famed for efficient service,
    Line 112 - Query word foreclosed

foreclosed, and his hired help, never famed for efficient service,
    Line 112 - Query word famed

now shirked duty with even more than their usual faithlessness. His
    Line 113 - Query word shirked

widowed sister, Mrs. Grippin, a more acute and vigilant overseer than
    Line 114 - Query word widowed

widowed sister, Mrs. Grippin, a more acute and vigilant overseer than
    Line 114 - Query word overseer

he, had from the chamber window repeatedly viewed through a telescope
    Line 115 - Query word telescope

the delinquency of two men who were cutting wood on a back lot. Her
    Line 116 - Query word delinquency

the delinquency of two men who were cutting wood on a back lot. Her
    Line 116 - Query word cutting

vehement arraignment did not induce the major to take action upon the
    Line 117 - Query word vehement

vehement arraignment did not induce the major to take action upon the
    Line 117 - Query word arraignment

vehement arraignment did not induce the major to take action upon the
    Line 117 - Query word induce

matter, till an event occurred which he considered an insult to his
    Line 118 - Query word event

matter, till an event occurred which he considered an insult to his
    Line 118 - Query word occurred

matter, till an event occurred which he considered an insult to his
    Line 118 - Query word insult

the indignant laborers took a half-day's vacation to get some tobacco
    Line 125 - Query word indignant

the indignant laborers took a half-day's vacation to get some tobacco
    Line 125 - Query word laborers

the indignant laborers took a half-day's vacation to get some tobacco
    Line 125 - Query word day's

the indignant laborers took a half-day's vacation to get some tobacco
    Line 125 - Query word vacation

the indignant laborers took a half-day's vacation to get some tobacco
    Line 125 - Query word tobacco

at the village of Break o'Day, which circumstance procured their
    Line 126 - Query word procured

immediate discharge.
    Line 127 - Query word discharge

surmise, however, was incorrect. Of the first three visitors who
    Line 130 - Query word surmise

surmise, however, was incorrect. Of the first three visitors who
    Line 130 - Query word incorrect

surmise, however, was incorrect. Of the first three visitors who
    Line 130 - Query word visitors

other a tramp, who hired out before breakfast, and after the meal
    Line 133 - Query word tramp

around to begin when it got warmer.
    Line 135 - Query word warmer

Notwithstanding the foreclosure of the mortgage the major was
    Line 137 - Query word Notwithstanding

planning sundry improvements on his place. A hill and a quagmire
    Line 138 - Query word sundry

opposite to the house were eyesores to his vanity, and he determined
    Line 139 - Query word eyesores

opposite to the house were eyesores to his vanity, and he determined
    Line 139 - Query word vanity

to transfer the superfluous gravel of the one to the boggy surface of
    Line 140 - Query word boggy

the other. His first step was nicely to calculate the expense of the
    Line 141 - Query word nicely

undertaking, the only prudence of which he was capable, for expense
    Line 142 - Query word undertaking

undertaking, the only prudence of which he was capable, for expense
    Line 142 - Query word prudence

of the hill, he applied his mathematics to ascertain its cubical
    Line 144 - Query word cubical

contents, using a confusion of geometrical and surveying terms to
    Line 145 - Query word geometrical

contents, using a confusion of geometrical and surveying terms to
    Line 145 - Query word surveying

But, as he proceeded in his work, he determined to originate a new
    Line 148 - Query word originate

method for ascertaining the dimensions of solid bodies; and his
    Line 149 - Query word ascertaining

be the basis of calculation for succeeding ages. He formed a small
    Line 154 - Query word calculation

be the basis of calculation for succeeding ages. He formed a small
    Line 154 - Query word succeeding

be the basis of calculation for succeeding ages. He formed a small
    Line 154 - Query word ages

earthen mound to represent as nearly as possible the shape of the
    Line 155 - Query word earthen

earthen mound to represent as nearly as possible the shape of the
    Line 155 - Query word represent

hill. He determined to ascertain the weight of the hill by the rule,
    Line 156 - Query word rule

"Similar bodies are to each other as the cubes of their like
    Line 157 - Query word Similar

"Similar bodies are to each other as the cubes of their like
    Line 157 - Query word cubes

As he was giving the miniature mountain a final pat to impart
    Line 160 - Query word final

As he was giving the miniature mountain a final pat to impart
    Line 160 - Query word pat

additional depth to a depression on its side, his sister interrupted
    Line 161 - Query word additional

additional depth to a depression on its side, his sister interrupted
    Line 161 - Query word depth

his study.
    Line 162 - Query word study

"Go and look for yourself," retorted Mrs. Grippin tartly. "I ain't
    Line 169 - Query word tartly

work at a good jog chopping and keep it up all day. He would cut, let
    Line 174 - Query word jog

work at a good jog chopping and keep it up all day. He would cut, let
    Line 174 - Query word chopping

two cords."
    Line 176 - Query word cords

"I'll bet he's the biggest shirk in four counties," commented Mrs.
    Line 178 - Query word shirk

Grippin sarcastically. "Anybody can tell all about a man by taking
    Line 179 - Query word sarcastically

The one in advance, Nora Warfle, was fair and vivacious, with eyes
    Line 183 - Query word vivacious

over which solemnity rarely drew a curtain thick enough to hide the
    Line 184 - Query word curtain

merriment slumbering within.
    Line 185 - Query word merriment

merriment slumbering within.
    Line 185 - Query word slumbering

She was ever on the alert for the ridiculous and the mirthful, and in
    Line 187 - Query word alert

She was ever on the alert for the ridiculous and the mirthful, and in
    Line 187 - Query word mirthful

her efforts at diversion she was not always scrupulous about wounding
    Line 188 - Query word diversion

her efforts at diversion she was not always scrupulous about wounding
    Line 188 - Query word scrupulous

Her companion, Marion Ratke, who resided permanently at the farm, was
    Line 191 - Query word Marion

Her companion, Marion Ratke, who resided permanently at the farm, was
    Line 191 - Query word resided

Her companion, Marion Ratke, who resided permanently at the farm, was
    Line 191 - Query word permanently

a true representative of her father's family. Her height was medium,
    Line 192 - Query word representative

handsome, though she was too intelligent to be really a beauty.
    Line 194 - Query word handsome

handsome, though she was too intelligent to be really a beauty.
    Line 194 - Query word really

"Here comes a peddler, Manie," whispered Miss Warfle excitedly.
    Line 196 - Query word excitedly

"Let's buy something of him and beat him down on everything he
    Line 197 - Query word Let's

sells."
    Line 198 - Query word sells

impressiveness of his personal appearance. A common observer would at
    Line 201 - Query word impressiveness

peddling. He was of ordinary size and wore ordinary clothes. Strapped
    Line 203 - Query word peddling

peddling. He was of ordinary size and wore ordinary clothes. Strapped
    Line 203 - Query word Strapped

together and hanging, one before his breast and one over his back,
    Line 204 - Query word breast

holds a secret and who feels his power.
    Line 215 - Query word feels

"I have heard a great many items of news this winter," answered the
    Line 217 - Query word items

James, you want to lock your barn or they'll be stealing Taylor."
    Line 224 - Query word stealing

called on, what's his name?--this man that raises horses over here.
    Line 227 - Query word raises

Queer I can't think."
    Line 228 - Query word Queer

T., a very good blooded animal. He thinks she can outstep my Taylor.
    Line 238 - Query word thinks

T., a very good blooded animal. He thinks she can outstep my Taylor.
    Line 238 - Query word outstep

"No wonder he breaks up," put in his sister, "the way you train him.
    Line 242 - Query word breaks

"No wonder he breaks up," put in his sister, "the way you train him.
    Line 242 - Query word train

Do you know how he does, Nora? He trains his team to run. He'll make
    Line 243 - Query word trains

them stand stock still still he yells 'Charge,' and if they don't
    Line 244 - Query word yells

them stand stock still still he yells 'Charge,' and if they don't
    Line 244 - Query word 'Charge

jump the first thing, he thrashes them. Then the next day he'll take
    Line 245 - Query word thrashes

"Mrs. Grippin!" said the major, his voice sounding an octave below
    Line 248 - Query word octave

his usual speaking key.
    Line 249 - Query word speaking

"Maybe you can get this gentleman to work, Uncle James," said Miss
    Line 251 - Query word gentleman

"Well now, like enough," answered the major. "Do you want a job?"
    Line 254 - Query word job

"I'm going to do humanity all the good I can, sir, all the good I
    Line 259 - Query word humanity

compounded of pine, hemlock, tamarack, cedar and spruce, besides
    Line 261 - Query word compounded

compounded of pine, hemlock, tamarack, cedar and spruce, besides
    Line 261 - Query word hemlock

compounded of pine, hemlock, tamarack, cedar and spruce, besides
    Line 261 - Query word cedar

sovereign roots and herbs known to the medical fraternity. It cures
    Line 262 - Query word roots

sovereign roots and herbs known to the medical fraternity. It cures
    Line 262 - Query word herbs

sovereign roots and herbs known to the medical fraternity. It cures
    Line 262 - Query word medical

sovereign roots and herbs known to the medical fraternity. It cures
    Line 262 - Query word fraternity

cuts, bruises, sprains, wounds, incisions, hurts, proud flesh--"
    Line 263 - Query word hurts

fair-haired Miss Warfle.
    Line 266 - Query word haired

bruises, sprains, wounds, incisions and all injuries to the flesh. It
    Line 269 - Query word injuries

laryngitis and all throat diseases, besides being an excellent tonic
    Line 271 - Query word tonic

for consumption, dyspepsia----"
    Line 272 - Query word dyspepsia

"What is your panicky worth a bottle?" innocently asked Miss Warfle.
    Line 274 - Query word innocently

is in a battle where the men get in a tight place with the rebels
    Line 277 - Query word tight

is in a battle where the men get in a tight place with the rebels
    Line 277 - Query word rebels

get whipped and can't fight any more, they have what they call a
    Line 279 - Query word whipped

a different thing altogether. Better take a bottle. Mister. It is a
    Line 281 - Query word Mister

"I would like a good liniment for bruises," said the major, "but it
    Line 284 - Query word liniment

prepared for everything, it is pretty sure to cure nothing."
    Line 286 - Query word pretty

account of its healing properties, but it's sure business for
    Line 290 - Query word healing

account of its healing properties, but it's sure business for
    Line 290 - Query word properties

"That's just what I've got," responded the man with alacrity,
    Line 295 - Query word alacrity

"Derrick's Dough of Life." "There's Bill Higgins had a colt that got
    Line 296 - Query word Derrick's

"Derrick's Dough of Life." "There's Bill Higgins had a colt that got
    Line 296 - Query word Higgins

his leg cut on a scythe. Laid it right open so the hide was left in
    Line 297 - Query word scythe

flaps. Bill says to me, 'Say, Dabney, what'll cure that cut?' and
    Line 298 - Query word flaps

flaps. Bill says to me, 'Say, Dabney, what'll cure that cut?' and
    Line 298 - Query word Dabney

flaps. Bill says to me, 'Say, Dabney, what'll cure that cut?' and
    Line 298 - Query word what'll

of Life. In two weeks the colt was capering round to beat all. He got
    Line 300 - Query word capering

into the corn, knocked over a fence, chased the cattle and sheep, and
    Line 301 - Query word chased

killed two lambs and kicked the hired man on the leg. And I don't
    Line 302 - Query word lambs

killed two lambs and kicked the hired man on the leg. And I don't
    Line 302 - Query word kicked

some of them'll want to buy."
    Line 308 - Query word them'll

"Of course they'd be willing to stop and gab with him," commented
    Line 316 - Query word gab

you had the gumption of a man, you'd kick such loafers off the farm
    Line 318 - Query word gumption

when they come palavering round with an excuse for your lazy hired
    Line 319 - Query word palavering

dozen times before? He comes about every six months, and a nuisance
    Line 325 - Query word months

"Oh, yes," said the major, "I do have some recollection of him; but I
    Line 329 - Query word recollection

was away from home when he made his last two or three visits."
    Line 330 - Query word visits

"In the name of mercy," exclaimed Mrs. Grippin, "if there ain't
    Line 332 - Query word mercy

nothing about him indicated acquaintance with farm labor. His elegant
    Line 337 - Query word acquaintance

nothing about him indicated acquaintance with farm labor. His elegant
    Line 337 - Query word elegant

form, his dark hair and eyes and a heavy brown mustache combined with
    Line 338 - Query word combined

an air of easy grace to make him one of those so rarely met with whom
    Line 339 - Query word grace

individuals, he bestowed more care on his personal appearance than he
    Line 341 - Query word individuals

The stranger with few preliminaries made an application for work. To
    Line 344 - Query word preliminaries

and requested the young man to do likewise.
    Line 346 - Query word requested

"My father held the rank of captain in the Mexican war," said
    Line 354 - Query word rank

Montcalm. "I am the heir to his given name, which was Traceworth."
    Line 355 - Query word heir

Montcalm. "I am the heir to his given name, which was Traceworth."
    Line 355 - Query word Traceworth

Instantly the major was shaking him by the hand. "Is he alive? Is he
    Line 357 - Query word alive

well? Where does he live?" were his ejaculations.
    Line 358 - Query word ejaculations

Cortland, New York."
    Line 361 - Query word York

"He was a noble fellow," said the major, "and his sword was one of
    Line 363 - Query word sword

the best in the brigade. General Taylor, in his official report, made
    Line 364 - Query word brigade

special mention of him for bravery in the battle of Resaca de la
    Line 365 - Query word bravery

special mention of him for bravery in the battle of Resaca de la
    Line 365 - Query word Resaca

special mention of him for bravery in the battle of Resaca de la
    Line 365 - Query word la

Palma. I was by his side during the engagement, and I, like the rest
    Line 366 - Query word Palma

Palma. I was by his side during the engagement, and I, like the rest
    Line 366 - Query word engagement

of the men, noticed his impetuosity, though I had little time to
    Line 367 - Query word impetuosity

promoted, but justice is not in every case meted out in this world.
    Line 369 - Query word promoted

"He was generally good-natured, but he had a terrible temper and was
    Line 377 - Query word natured

"He was generally good-natured, but he had a terrible temper and was
    Line 377 - Query word temper

after we had been chasing Black-Hawk all day, the mosquitos were very
    Line 380 - Query word chasing

after we had been chasing Black-Hawk all day, the mosquitos were very
    Line 380 - Query word mosquitos

thick. Some of the boys rolled and tumbled and some swore. As I was
    Line 381 - Query word swore

exposing first one part of my face and then another, to see if there
    Line 382 - Query word exposing

was not some place the pests had less relish for, I heard a threshing
    Line 383 - Query word pests

so regular that I knew whoever was making it meant to push
    Line 384 - Query word whoever

hostilities to the last, and when I looked, I saw Trace sitting up
    Line 385 - Query word hostilities

and striking as deliberately as he would plan a compaign. But it was
    Line 386 - Query word deliberately

and striking as deliberately as he would plan a compaign. But it was
    Line 386 - Query word compaign

a wicked vindictiveness, and when the lieutenant laughed at him, he
    Line 387 - Query word vindictiveness

a wicked vindictiveness, and when the lieutenant laughed at him, he
    Line 387 - Query word lieutenant

last battle in the Wisconsin territory. The Indians had been beaten
    Line 391 - Query word beaten

and were swimming across a slough, bucks, pappooses and squaws all
    Line 392 - Query word swimming

and were swimming across a slough, bucks, pappooses and squaws all
    Line 392 - Query word slough

and were swimming across a slough, bucks, pappooses and squaws all
    Line 392 - Query word bucks

and were swimming across a slough, bucks, pappooses and squaws all
    Line 392 - Query word pappooses

and were swimming across a slough, bucks, pappooses and squaws all
    Line 392 - Query word squaws

splashing around together. We had orders to fire on them from the
    Line 393 - Query word splashing

splashing around together. We had orders to fire on them from the
    Line 393 - Query word orders

bank.
    Line 394 - Query word bank

he would take care the bullets did not hit anybody. Most of the
    Line 397 - Query word bullets

back to help a squaw, probably his own, to get her pappoose to shore.
    Line 399 - Query word squaw

back to help a squaw, probably his own, to get her pappoose to shore.
    Line 399 - Query word pappoose

were congratulating ourselves that he stood a little chance, Ben
    Line 401 - Query word congratulating

Rogers, right close by, drew a careful bead on him. Now, Ben was the
    Line 402 - Query word Rogers

Rogers, right close by, drew a careful bead on him. Now, Ben was the
    Line 402 - Query word bead

best shot in the regiment, and my heart went down in my boot-heels,
    Line 403 - Query word regiment

but Trace jostled him just as he fired. Well, Ben was mad. He
    Line 404 - Query word jostled

but Trace jostled him just as he fired. Well, Ben was mad. He
    Line 404 - Query word fired

court-martialed, but he never did. Trace's jostling did no good,
    Line 406 - Query word martialed

court-martialed, but he never did. Trace's jostling did no good,
    Line 406 - Query word Trace's

court-martialed, but he never did. Trace's jostling did no good,
    Line 406 - Query word jostling

however. The old buck fell, going over the bluff on the other side.
    Line 407 - Query word bluff

unaccustomed good-nature. "I'll ring the bell when it's time, and I
    Line 411 - Query word ring

you Trace on your father's account, for it is a luxury to address his
    Line 415 - Query word luxury

son as I did him. We will make no bargain till after dinner."
    Line 416 - Query word bargain

wearing a suit of plain clothes and a pair of stoga boots. Even this
    Line 420 - Query word stoga

sought to assume. His hands, soft and white, indicated that he was
    Line 422 - Query word assume

unacquainted with muscular toil; and his whole aspect and demeanor,
    Line 423 - Query word muscular

unacquainted with muscular toil; and his whole aspect and demeanor,
    Line 423 - Query word toil

unacquainted with muscular toil; and his whole aspect and demeanor,
    Line 423 - Query word demeanor

was in his address something which was peculiarly winning, and which
    Line 425 - Query word peculiarly

was in his address something which was peculiarly winning, and which
    Line 425 - Query word winning

would have fascinated Ratke without the assistance of the veteran's
    Line 426 - Query word fascinated

would have fascinated Ratke without the assistance of the veteran's
    Line 426 - Query word veteran's

have only tried to. Well, suppose we look around a little before
    Line 430 - Query word tried

The white wrap of winter was nearly worn out, but here and there
    Line 442 - Query word wrap

The white wrap of winter was nearly worn out, but here and there
    Line 442 - Query word worn

islands and peninsulas of snow glimmered in isolated stations from
    Line 443 - Query word islands

islands and peninsulas of snow glimmered in isolated stations from
    Line 443 - Query word peninsulas

islands and peninsulas of snow glimmered in isolated stations from
    Line 443 - Query word glimmered

islands and peninsulas of snow glimmered in isolated stations from
    Line 443 - Query word isolated

islands and peninsulas of snow glimmered in isolated stations from
    Line 443 - Query word stations

the somberer areas of lately uncovered earth, or stretched away in
    Line 444 - Query word somberer

the somberer areas of lately uncovered earth, or stretched away in
    Line 444 - Query word areas

the somberer areas of lately uncovered earth, or stretched away in
    Line 444 - Query word lately

varying and grotesquely formed curves to join the more protected
    Line 445 - Query word grotesquely

varying and grotesquely formed curves to join the more protected
    Line 445 - Query word curves

varying and grotesquely formed curves to join the more protected
    Line 445 - Query word protected

strips along the fences. The cultivated land on that side of the road
    Line 446 - Query word fences

strips along the fences. The cultivated land on that side of the road
    Line 446 - Query word cultivated

was enclosed in semicircular shape, and a strip of timber extended
    Line 447 - Query word semicircular

from the swamp to a point northwest of the house, as if starting out
    Line 448 - Query word northwest

to cut the improvements in twain, and afterward repenting of its
    Line 449 - Query word twain

to cut the improvements in twain, and afterward repenting of its
    Line 449 - Query word repenting

design. At the western end it terminated in a patch of shrubs over
    Line 450 - Query word terminated

which could be seen the tops of the statelier trees beyond. To the
    Line 451 - Query word statelier

east the hardwood timber, mostly of oak, skirted, till it nearly
    Line 452 - Query word hardwood

east the hardwood timber, mostly of oak, skirted, till it nearly
    Line 452 - Query word mostly

reached the road, along the marsh which bordered the great swamp. The
    Line 453 - Query word bordered

only signs of vegetable life which were visible to Montcalm were in
    Line 454 - Query word vegetable

by their evergreen branches.
    Line 456 - Query word evergreen

With the major discoursing volubly as they went along, the two men
    Line 458 - Query word discoursing

With the major discoursing volubly as they went along, the two men
    Line 458 - Query word volubly

ornamented on the top with three cupolas and a prancing horse, was
    Line 460 - Query word ornamented

ornamented on the top with three cupolas and a prancing horse, was
    Line 460 - Query word cupolas

ornamented on the top with three cupolas and a prancing horse, was
    Line 460 - Query word prancing

the center from the extremities of which branched the others, nearly
    Line 461 - Query word extremities

forming a yard, which was completed by a connecting fence.
    Line 462 - Query word connecting

A discourse, which his biographer has not taken the trouble to find,
    Line 464 - Query word biographer

was given by the major on the character and phrenology of each beast:
    Line 465 - Query word phrenology

to poor pasture for the mere satisfaction of being unruly, and on
    Line 468 - Query word unruly

several others which would jump from poor to good pasture for obvious
    Line 469 - Query word obvious

reasons.
    Line 470 - Query word reasons

"Here is the finest animal I have," said the major, laying his hand
    Line 472 - Query word finest

on the hip of a horse with a long foretop and a fine head and ears.
    Line 473 - Query word foretop

on the hip of a horse with a long foretop and a fine head and ears.
    Line 473 - Query word ears

"Zachary Taylor, probably the best blooded horse in the county.
    Line 474 - Query word Zachary

shall hold a rein over him. Taylor, old boy, you want an ear of corn?
    Line 478 - Query word ear

You have not seen my machine shop," said the animated old man,
    Line 479 - Query word animated

opening the door of a building at the west end of the group of barns.
    Line 480 - Query word group

knowledge of mechanics."
    Line 484 - Query word mechanics

A practical machinist would have had much difficulty in classifying
    Line 486 - Query word machinist

A practical machinist would have had much difficulty in classifying
    Line 486 - Query word classifying

the various specimens of constructive talent hanging on the walls and
    Line 487 - Query word specimens

the various specimens of constructive talent hanging on the walls and
    Line 487 - Query word constructive

the various specimens of constructive talent hanging on the walls and
    Line 487 - Query word walls

strewn in chaos about the floor. Old reapers, clocks, fanning mills
    Line 488 - Query word chaos

strewn in chaos about the floor. Old reapers, clocks, fanning mills
    Line 488 - Query word reapers

strewn in chaos about the floor. Old reapers, clocks, fanning mills
    Line 488 - Query word clocks

strewn in chaos about the floor. Old reapers, clocks, fanning mills
    Line 488 - Query word fanning

and threshing machines had been dissected to furnish material for
    Line 489 - Query word machines

and threshing machines had been dissected to furnish material for
    Line 489 - Query word dissected

and threshing machines had been dissected to furnish material for
    Line 489 - Query word furnish

merit of originality. Each wheel, six feet high, revolved on a peg
    Line 492 - Query word merit

merit of originality. Each wheel, six feet high, revolved on a peg
    Line 492 - Query word revolved

so that the vehicle had no axle-tree. Two boxes suspended from the
    Line 494 - Query word boxes

"A revolution in road vehicles is coming," began the major. "The days
    Line 498 - Query word revolution

"A revolution in road vehicles is coming," began the major. "The days
    Line 498 - Query word vehicles

light draught. The attachment of the tongue down low lessens the
    Line 501 - Query word lessens

rolling friction on the ground, and the six-foot wheel does a great
    Line 502 - Query word rolling

deal to lessen the sliding friction on the axle. Let me make that
    Line 503 - Query word lessen

deal to lessen the sliding friction on the axle. Let me make that
    Line 503 - Query word sliding

but I question its right to the definition. One molecule is planted
    Line 505 - Query word molecule

on the ground and rests there until another takes its place, when it
    Line 506 - Query word rests

rises and a second particle becomes the pivotal point, to be
    Line 507 - Query word rises

rises and a second particle becomes the pivotal point, to be
    Line 507 - Query word pivotal

succeeded by the third, fourth and so on. The only friction then is
    Line 508 - Query word fourth

in the adhesion of the surfaces as the upper one is planted down and
    Line 509 - Query word adhesion

in the adhesion of the surfaces as the upper one is planted down and
    Line 509 - Query word surfaces

removed; a great difference, you observe, from that which comes from
    Line 510 - Query word observe

passing parallel with the surface of a body. But that at the point of
    Line 511 - Query word parallel

the revolutionary pivot is different. Here the wheel is continually
    Line 512 - Query word revolutionary

scraping over the axle, a resistance which it requires much more
    Line 513 - Query word scraping

force to overcome. A six-foot wheel revolves every--let me see--every
    Line 514 - Query word overcome

ten-thousandths," and the major began to figure on the wall, "every
    Line 516 - Query word thousandths

three hundred and seventy-two ten-thousandth's feet. The smaller
    Line 520 - Query word seventy

wheels, having a swifter movement at the pivot, occasion a greater
    Line 521 - Query word swifter

Montcalm, though tortured by the tedious harangue, practiced his well
    Line 524 - Query word tortured

Montcalm, though tortured by the tedious harangue, practiced his well
    Line 524 - Query word harangue

with an air of gravest concern.
    Line 526 - Query word gravest

with an air of gravest concern.
    Line 526 - Query word concern

use it up recklessly."
    Line 530 - Query word recklessly

was anxious, very anxious, to see the wagon tested, but he begged the
    Line 534 - Query word tested

was anxious, very anxious, to see the wagon tested, but he begged the
    Line 534 - Query word begged

major on no account to subject it to a trial until it was properly
    Line 535 - Query word trial

ironed and fitted for running.
    Line 536 - Query word fitted

To this proposal Montcalm objected, but he volunteered to act as
    Line 541 - Query word volunteered

in the product of his genius, which Montcalm drew back and forth,
    Line 543 - Query word product

praising the lightness of its draught and suppressing the grunts
    Line 544 - Query word praising

praising the lightness of its draught and suppressing the grunts
    Line 544 - Query word lightness

praising the lightness of its draught and suppressing the grunts
    Line 544 - Query word suppressing

praising the lightness of its draught and suppressing the grunts
    Line 544 - Query word grunts

whose utterance would have belied his statement.
    Line 545 - Query word utterance

whose utterance would have belied his statement.
    Line 545 - Query word belied

When Montcalm's energy began to flag, the major inquired, "You do not
    Line 547 - Query word flag

an ancient name would be proper, some kind of chariot,--Pharaoh's
    Line 551 - Query word Pharaoh's

"No," said the major, shaking his head and clambering from the
    Line 554 - Query word clambering

splendor of the ornaments you mean to put on or some reason which I
    Line 558 - Query word splendor

"Well," answered the major, purposely keeping his auditor in
    Line 561 - Query word auditor

suspense, "it is a long history. Some years ago there was, over
    Line 562 - Query word suspense

across the swamp, an old man by the name of Barrow, an out-and-out
    Line 563 - Query word Barrow

Adventist. He said the world was coming to an end before long. He
    Line 564 - Query word Adventist

houses, without a hat, always with the same strain, 'Babylon is
    Line 568 - Query word 'Babylon

around Rorus's drug-store were scared into leaving off an occasional
    Line 570 - Query word Rorus's

around Rorus's drug-store were scared into leaving off an occasional
    Line 570 - Query word scared

around Rorus's drug-store were scared into leaving off an occasional
    Line 570 - Query word occasional

spree, and the other three-quarters had some fun repeating his
    Line 571 - Query word spree

spree, and the other three-quarters had some fun repeating his
    Line 571 - Query word repeating

bareheaded out to the barn, where my men and I were looking over the
    Line 573 - Query word bareheaded

old wagon, the first one I invented, and he began:
    Line 574 - Query word invented

of the Gentiles is fulfilled. Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen'
    Line 577 - Query word Gentiles

of the Gentiles is fulfilled. Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen'
    Line 577 - Query word fulfilled

of the Gentiles is fulfilled. Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen'
    Line 577 - Query word Babylon

devils, and the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of every
    Line 579 - Query word devils

devils, and the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of every
    Line 579 - Query word foul

devils, and the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of every
    Line 579 - Query word cage

unclean and hateful bird. For all nations have drunk of the wine of
    Line 580 - Query word unclean

unclean and hateful bird. For all nations have drunk of the wine of
    Line 580 - Query word hateful

committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth are
    Line 582 - Query word merchants

waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies. Come out of her,
    Line 583 - Query word waxed

waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies. Come out of her,
    Line 583 - Query word abundance

waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies. Come out of her,
    Line 583 - Query word delicacies

heart and the year of my redeemed is come.
    Line 587 - Query word redeemed

the abomination that maketh desolate set up, there shall be a
    Line 590 - Query word abomination

the abomination that maketh desolate set up, there shall be a
    Line 590 - Query word maketh

'"'That which the palmer-worm hath left hath the locust eaten; and
    Line 593 - Query word palmer

that which the locust hath left hath the cankerworm eaten; and that
    Line 594 - Query word cankerworm

which the canker-worm hath left hath the caterpillar eaten.'
    Line 595 - Query word canker

'"'We've had the caterpillar and the grasshopper and the potato-bug
    Line 597 - Query word grasshopper

'"'We've had the caterpillar and the grasshopper and the potato-bug
    Line 597 - Query word potato

'"'We've had the caterpillar and the grasshopper and the potato-bug
    Line 597 - Query word bug

and the weevil. Describes it exactly.
    Line 598 - Query word weevil

and the weevil. Describes it exactly.
    Line 598 - Query word Describes

'"'And the desolate land shall be tilled, whereas it lay desolate in
    Line 600 - Query word tilled

'"'And the desolate land shall be tilled, whereas it lay desolate in
    Line 600 - Query word whereas

thrashing machine there last year.
    Line 605 - Query word thrashing

"Well, the idea struck my men so forcibly that they dubbed it the
    Line 610 - Query word idea

"Well, the idea struck my men so forcibly that they dubbed it the
    Line 610 - Query word dubbed

It is as yet an unsolved problem how long the old man would have
    Line 615 - Query word unsolved

continued the recital of these reminiscences had he not been
    Line 616 - Query word recital

interrupted by a strange clamor from near the house. The noise seemed
    Line 617 - Query word clamor

to be produced by the strokes of some metallic object against a steel
    Line 618 - Query word metallic

plate, which had a resonance sufficient to make the sound continuous.
    Line 619 - Query word resonance

As the men left the machine shop, the cause of the commotion was
    Line 623 - Query word commotion

apparent to Montcalm. Mrs. Grippin, with the energy characteristic of
    Line 624 - Query word apparent

all her actions, was using a two-foot iron bar to belabor a long
    Line 625 - Query word actions

all her actions, was using a two-foot iron bar to belabor a long
    Line 625 - Query word belabor

most doleful lamentations.
    Line 628 - Query word lamentations

"Make an estimate of the cost of that bell," said the major.
    Line 635 - Query word estimate

"Indeed!" exclaimed Montcalm, manifesting the proper amount of
    Line 650 - Query word manifesting

"That is the old upright saw which used to be in McGraw's mill," said
    Line 653 - Query word McGraw's

the plan for a drag-saw for small logs that was ahead of any
    Line 655 - Query word logs

take only two horses. One day, about noon, I heard a hubbub loud
    Line 657 - Query word hubbub

viciously she strikes, as if she were bent on destroying the last
    Line 660 - Query word destroying

vestige of its usefulness. She had banged the teeth so much that
    Line 661 - Query word vestige

vestige of its usefulness. She had banged the teeth so much that
    Line 661 - Query word usefulness

vestige of its usefulness. She had banged the teeth so much that
    Line 661 - Query word banged

using it afterwards was wholly put of the question. I always
    Line 662 - Query word afterwards

more with the saw, a Wisconsin lumberman had the start of me. If all
    Line 665 - Query word lumberman

people were like her, this would be an unprogressive world."
    Line 666 - Query word unprogressive

On entering the house, the veteran found awaiting him a visitor, whom
    Line 668 - Query word awaiting

Mrs. Grippin introduced as follows:
    Line 669 - Query word introduced

his name as John Wrengell. His stature was above the common height,
    Line 677 - Query word stature

but his form was not Stocky. He had Saxon blue eyes, light brown hair
    Line 678 - Query word Stocky

but his form was not Stocky. He had Saxon blue eyes, light brown hair
    Line 678 - Query word Saxon

and the sensitive nature which accompanies the nervous temperament.
    Line 679 - Query word sensitive

and the sensitive nature which accompanies the nervous temperament.
    Line 679 - Query word accompanies

and the sensitive nature which accompanies the nervous temperament.
    Line 679 - Query word temperament

The introduction to the ladies exhibited a vast difference between
    Line 684 - Query word ladies

The introduction to the ladies exhibited a vast difference between
    Line 684 - Query word exhibited

The introduction to the ladies exhibited a vast difference between
    Line 684 - Query word vast

Montcalm and Wrengell. Montcalm bowed with a courtesy which was at
    Line 685 - Query word bowed

Montcalm and Wrengell. Montcalm bowed with a courtesy which was at
    Line 685 - Query word courtesy

Wrengell blushed, mispronounced one name, half mumbled the other, and
    Line 688 - Query word blushed

Wrengell blushed, mispronounced one name, half mumbled the other, and
    Line 688 - Query word mispronounced

Wrengell blushed, mispronounced one name, half mumbled the other, and
    Line 688 - Query word mumbled

in sitting down overturned with a backward sweep of his arm the heap
    Line 689 - Query word overturned

of dirt so much doted on by the major.
    Line 690 - Query word doted

Miss Warfle with much difficulty repressed her mirth, and the old
    Line 692 - Query word repressed

officer with still more trouble kept back his irritation from open
    Line 693 - Query word irritation

enough on your boots without lugging it in in a heap to make me sweep
    Line 699 - Query word lugging

line of direction within its base, and that its cohesion would not be
    Line 703 - Query word cohesion

acted upon by external forces sufficiently to destroy it. My clay
    Line 704 - Query word acted

acted upon by external forces sufficiently to destroy it. My clay
    Line 704 - Query word sufficiently

mound stayed here two weeks, and it constantly maintained a
    Line 705 - Query word constantly

preponderance of attractive over repulsive forces, but clay possesses
    Line 706 - Query word repulsive

of your high-sounding strains. Can't you talk so anybody can
    Line 710 - Query word strains

"It is a mortifying fact," said the major, putting a degree of
    Line 713 - Query word mortifying

"It is a mortifying fact," said the major, putting a degree of
    Line 713 - Query word fact

meaning of viscosity. It is derived from the Latin viscum. Viscum,
    Line 715 - Query word meaning

meaning of viscosity. It is derived from the Latin viscum. Viscum,
    Line 715 - Query word derived

meaning of viscosity. It is derived from the Latin viscum. Viscum,
    Line 715 - Query word Latin

viscositas; French, viscosite; Provencal, viscositat; Spanish,
    Line 716 - Query word viscositas

viscositas; French, viscosite; Provencal, viscositat; Spanish,
    Line 716 - Query word French

viscositas; French, viscosite; Provencal, viscositat; Spanish,
    Line 716 - Query word viscosite

viscositas; French, viscosite; Provencal, viscositat; Spanish,
    Line 716 - Query word Provencal

viscositas; French, viscosite; Provencal, viscositat; Spanish,
    Line 716 - Query word viscositat

viscositas; French, viscosite; Provencal, viscositat; Spanish,
    Line 716 - Query word Spanish

viscosidad; Portuguese, vis----"
    Line 717 - Query word viscosidad

viscosidad; Portuguese, vis----"
    Line 717 - Query word Portuguese

viscosidad; Portuguese, vis----"
    Line 717 - Query word vis

"'What do we care about your viscos and viscovuses?" retorted Mrs.
    Line 719 - Query word viscos

"'What do we care about your viscos and viscovuses?" retorted Mrs.
    Line 719 - Query word viscovuses

Grippin. "When you talk common English, folks give you credit for
    Line 720 - Query word English

The approach of the hired men was now heralded by the confused hum of
    Line 724 - Query word confused

The approach of the hired men was now heralded by the confused hum of
    Line 724 - Query word hum

voices, varied now and then by a boisterous laugh. When they had
    Line 725 - Query word boisterous

taken their turns at the wash-dishes, the towel and the
    Line 726 - Query word turns

taken their turns at the wash-dishes, the towel and the
    Line 726 - Query word wash

The farmhouse had been built in the days of Ratke's prosperity. It
    Line 733 - Query word farmhouse

On the northern side, and extending to the kitchen at the eastern
    Line 737 - Query word eastern

extremity of the dwelling, was a tier of bedrooms and closets. Not
    Line 738 - Query word tier

extremity of the dwelling, was a tier of bedrooms and closets. Not
    Line 738 - Query word closets

satisfied with the half-dozen sleeping apartments in the row alluded
    Line 739 - Query word apartments

satisfied with the half-dozen sleeping apartments in the row alluded
    Line 739 - Query word row

satisfied with the half-dozen sleeping apartments in the row alluded
    Line 739 - Query word alluded

construction, on the side facing the street, of two more bedrooms
    Line 741 - Query word facing

construction, on the side facing the street, of two more bedrooms
    Line 741 - Query word street

which, jutting inwardly, formed a narrow hall between the
    Line 742 - Query word jutting

which, jutting inwardly, formed a narrow hall between the
    Line 742 - Query word inwardly

which, jutting inwardly, formed a narrow hall between the
    Line 742 - Query word hall

The main divisions of the house were inappropriately named, or, at
    Line 745 - Query word divisions

The main divisions of the house were inappropriately named, or, at
    Line 745 - Query word inappropriately

least, not named according to the uses to which they were put. The
    Line 746 - Query word uses

library in four bookcases, was almost daily used by the family. It is
    Line 750 - Query word library

library in four bookcases, was almost daily used by the family. It is
    Line 750 - Query word bookcases

true that this subversion of common usage was much censured by Mrs.
    Line 751 - Query word subversion

household, certain evils which even she was powerless to remedy.
    Line 753 - Query word evils

household, certain evils which even she was powerless to remedy.
    Line 753 - Query word powerless

There were seated around the extension table thirteen persons, the
    Line 755 - Query word thirteen

resident family of four, six hired men, two prospective ones, and the
    Line 756 - Query word resident

resident family of four, six hired men, two prospective ones, and the
    Line 756 - Query word prospective

persuaded to stay to dinner.
    Line 758 - Query word persuaded

knife and fork, he gave a discourse of five minutes on the principles
    Line 765 - Query word fork

and a fringe of whiskers running underneath his chin. "I aim't chust
    Line 772 - Query word fringe

and a fringe of whiskers running underneath his chin. "I aim't chust
    Line 772 - Query word whiskers

and a fringe of whiskers running underneath his chin. "I aim't chust
    Line 772 - Query word aim't

as you tolt me an' tat's te reason I titn't hit 'im."
    Line 773 - Query word tolt

as you tolt me an' tat's te reason I titn't hit 'im."
    Line 773 - Query word tat's

"I fed him and curried him off," replied Archer, the man whom Ratke
    Line 777 - Query word fed

"I fed him and curried him off," replied Archer, the man whom Ratke
    Line 777 - Query word curried

"unt, if it hatn't a peen for me, you vootn't a hat no Taylor."
    Line 781 - Query word vootn't

clup-house. Unt, chust apout tvelf o'clock, I heert te parn toor co
    Line 786 - Query word clup

clup-house. Unt, chust apout tvelf o'clock, I heert te parn toor co
    Line 786 - Query word apout

clup-house. Unt, chust apout tvelf o'clock, I heert te parn toor co
    Line 786 - Query word tvelf

clup-house. Unt, chust apout tvelf o'clock, I heert te parn toor co
    Line 786 - Query word parn

Vell, I sit up. Unt I co out py te tool-house. Ven te toor stop, I
    Line 788 - Query word py

stop. Vell, ven te toor co skveak, I co on. Pimepy te toor go skveak
    Line 789 - Query word Pimepy

acin, unt two tam horse-tiefs, tey come out vith Taylor. Unt tey vass
    Line 790 - Query word acin

pic fellers, piccern ole Chon Tafis.
    Line 791 - Query word fellers

pic fellers, piccern ole Chon Tafis.
    Line 791 - Query word piccern

pic fellers, piccern ole Chon Tafis.
    Line 791 - Query word Chon

pic fellers, piccern ole Chon Tafis.
    Line 791 - Query word Tafis

"Vell, ten I come out from te tool-house. Unt I catched poth of 'em
    Line 793 - Query word poth

pountet 'em till tey hat te sorest faces. Provitin' you hatn't a peen
    Line 795 - Query word pountet

pountet 'em till tey hat te sorest faces. Provitin' you hatn't a peen
    Line 795 - Query word sorest

asleep so sount as you couldn't vake, you voot a heert 'em yell."
    Line 796 - Query word sount

oldest and most trusty of the hands.
    Line 799 - Query word oldest

oldest and most trusty of the hands.
    Line 799 - Query word trusty

"Vell, you see," answered Wingscheut, "Taylor he gits avay. Unt he
    Line 801 - Query word gits

"Vell, you see," answered Wingscheut, "Taylor he gits avay. Unt he
    Line 801 - Query word avay

runs up te roat. Unt I titn't vant to lose a horse vat vass vorth a
    Line 802 - Query word runs

runs up te roat. Unt I titn't vant to lose a horse vat vass vorth a
    Line 802 - Query word roat

runs up te roat. Unt I titn't vant to lose a horse vat vass vorth a
    Line 802 - Query word vorth

tousan' tollars for two tam horsetiefs vat vass goot for notting at
    Line 803 - Query word tousan

tousan' tollars for two tam horsetiefs vat vass goot for notting at
    Line 803 - Query word tollars

tousan' tollars for two tam horsetiefs vat vass goot for notting at
    Line 803 - Query word horsetiefs

tousan' tollars for two tam horsetiefs vat vass goot for notting at
    Line 803 - Query word goot

all. So I coes on after Taylor. Provitin' you ton't pelieve me, I can
    Line 804 - Query word coes

show you vere tey lay."
    Line 805 - Query word vere

"Wingscheut give 'em sore faces, for I saw him," whispered a
    Line 807 - Query word sore

Every one present listened to this confirmation of Wingscheut's
    Line 810 - Query word confirmation

Every one present listened to this confirmation of Wingscheut's
    Line 810 - Query word Wingscheut's

doubtful veracity.
    Line 811 - Query word doubtful

doubtful veracity.
    Line 811 - Query word veracity

"Vell, you see," continued Daggett, the voiceless young man, mocking
    Line 813 - Query word voiceless

"Vell, you see," continued Daggett, the voiceless young man, mocking
    Line 813 - Query word mocking

the German's peculiar accent, "Vingscheut unt me, ve kilt te tam
    Line 814 - Query word accent

scalps. Unt ve vent on to te svamp. Unt ve fount sixteen more tam
    Line 818 - Query word svamp

scalps. Unt ve vent on to te svamp. Unt ve fount sixteen more tam
    Line 818 - Query word fount

When Wingscheut had mastered his disgust and an immense mouthful of
    Line 822 - Query word immense

When Wingscheut had mastered his disgust and an immense mouthful of
    Line 822 - Query word mouthful

beefsteak, he said:
    Line 823 - Query word beefsteak

"Provitin' I vass such a liar as tat, I voot crawl off in a holler
    Line 825 - Query word liar

"Provitin' I vass such a liar as tat, I voot crawl off in a holler
    Line 825 - Query word crawl

"Provitin' I vass such a liar as tat, I voot crawl off in a holler
    Line 825 - Query word holler

loc unt tie."
    Line 826 - Query word loc

"Back aches like time," answered Sheppard, drawing his hand along his
    Line 830 - Query word aches

spine.
    Line 831 - Query word spine

great saving of labor. It allows you, instead of stooping over, or
    Line 834 - Query word saving

great saving of labor. It allows you, instead of stooping over, or
    Line 834 - Query word stooping

dropping your hands by your side, to push toward the log straight
    Line 835 - Query word dropping

from the shoulder. The motory power is in the muscles of the shoulder
    Line 836 - Query word motory

from the shoulder. The motory power is in the muscles of the shoulder
    Line 836 - Query word muscles

worked, with the hands on a level with the hips, is a lever of the
    Line 839 - Query word hips

third class, power in the center, fulcrum at one end and weight at
    Line 840 - Query word fulcrum

the other. In this lever there is a gain of motion and a
    Line 841 - Query word gain

twenty-five dollars. Montcalm stayed in the house, conversing with
    Line 849 - Query word conversing

alarm, a table, a stove, common chairs, rocking-chairs and all the
    Line 856 - Query word stove

Panicky surmised that Archer was bilious, that Sheppard had lumbago,
    Line 859 - Query word bilious

Panicky surmised that Archer was bilious, that Sheppard had lumbago,
    Line 859 - Query word lumbago

of his voice was a bottle of Great American Panacea. By a series of
    Line 861 - Query word series

harangues on individual complaints, followed by an eloquent exordium,
    Line 862 - Query word harangues

harangues on individual complaints, followed by an eloquent exordium,
    Line 862 - Query word eloquent

harangues on individual complaints, followed by an eloquent exordium,
    Line 862 - Query word exordium

Wingscheut, contributed equally to the purchase-money.
    Line 864 - Query word contributed

"Maybe he wouldn't say nothin'," replied Jake, "but right's right,
    Line 871 - Query word right's

an' loafin' roun' when you're paid to work ain't right."
    Line 872 - Query word loafin

an' loafin' roun' when you're paid to work ain't right."
    Line 872 - Query word roun

drive his trotter, Taylor, to Break O'Day; The girls were passing a
    Line 875 - Query word girls

The preceding spring Philetus Takum had come to Ratke with a piteous
    Line 878 - Query word piteous

appeal for help. He had been turned out of doors by his landlord, and
    Line 879 - Query word landlord

The major, against the remonstrances of his household erected a
    Line 882 - Query word remonstrances

The major, against the remonstrances of his household erected a
    Line 882 - Query word erected

Takum. But Philetus proved a disappointment to his benefactor. Not
    Line 884 - Query word benefactor

only did he neglect to pay the promised rent, but he circulated some
    Line 885 - Query word circulated

annoying untruths and many more annoying truths concerning Ratke and
    Line 886 - Query word untruths

annoying untruths and many more annoying truths concerning Ratke and
    Line 886 - Query word truths

The most valuable of Takum's personal property was a mongrel shepherd
    Line 889 - Query word mongrel

The most valuable of Takum's personal property was a mongrel shepherd
    Line 889 - Query word shepherd

sell a pup for less than one dollar, and he had been offered for the
    Line 894 - Query word pup

largest one only eighty-five cents. Mrs. Grippin declared that the
    Line 895 - Query word eighty

dogs ate eggs, and that their master had an equal fondness for stolen
    Line 896 - Query word eggs

dogs ate eggs, and that their master had an equal fondness for stolen
    Line 896 - Query word fondness

thrown over the arm of his rocking-chair, his elbow on his knee and
    Line 900 - Query word elbow

thrown over the arm of his rocking-chair, his elbow on his knee and
    Line 900 - Query word knee

his head resting on his hand. Left to himself, he plunged deeply into
    Line 901 - Query word resting

his philosophical studies. His mind was clear, his absorption
    Line 902 - Query word philosophical

his philosophical studies. His mind was clear, his absorption
    Line 902 - Query word studies

his philosophical studies. His mind was clear, his absorption
    Line 902 - Query word absorption

complete. The principles of nature's mighty phenomena, enlarging in
    Line 903 - Query word nature's

complete. The principles of nature's mighty phenomena, enlarging in
    Line 903 - Query word phenomena

complete. The principles of nature's mighty phenomena, enlarging in
    Line 903 - Query word enlarging

scope and simplifying in form, passed one by one before his vision
    Line 904 - Query word scope

scope and simplifying in form, passed one by one before his vision
    Line 904 - Query word simplifying

with clearness and majesty; and, as he thought, more than ever showed
    Line 905 - Query word clearness

with clearness and majesty; and, as he thought, more than ever showed
    Line 905 - Query word majesty

the harmony of natural and mental philosophy.
    Line 906 - Query word harmony

delightful reverie. Some external circumstance was tugging at his
    Line 909 - Query word reverie

attention, which still clung tenaciously to the theories which he was
    Line 910 - Query word clung

attention, which still clung tenaciously to the theories which he was
    Line 910 - Query word tenaciously

formulating. Reluctantly he dropped his hand and threw his left leg
    Line 911 - Query word formulating

force, which, though exercising a slight amount of influence per unit
    Line 926 - Query word exercising

force, which, though exercising a slight amount of influence per unit
    Line 926 - Query word unit

of time, in the lapse of concrete time brings to bear a stress, the
    Line 927 - Query word concrete

of time, in the lapse of concrete time brings to bear a stress, the
    Line 927 - Query word stress

total amount of which is enormous."
    Line 928 - Query word enormous

"I think some of the men are shirking," said Mrs. Grippin. "The woods
    Line 943 - Query word shirking

"I do not like to appear suspicious of them," the major remonstrated.
    Line 947 - Query word remonstrated

"Why," ejaculated Ratke, "you are advocating the principles of
    Line 954 - Query word advocating

'Elementa Philosophica de Cive.'"
    Line 955 - Query word Philosophica

'Elementa Philosophica de Cive.'"
    Line 955 - Query word Cive

"Bolder yet!" exclaimed the major. "Now you are branching off on the
    Line 960 - Query word Bolder

"Bolder yet!" exclaimed the major. "Now you are branching off on the
    Line 960 - Query word branching

Leviathan. I never thought you would be a Hobbist, Maria."
    Line 961 - Query word Leviathan

"No, no, Maria," mildly expostulated the major. "A Hobbist means--"
    Line 967 - Query word mildly

if you don't go down there I won't get a morsel of dinner for your
    Line 970 - Query word morsel

"I can go for the sake of peace," said the major, with a sigh.
    Line 973 - Query word sake

"I can go for the sake of peace," said the major, with a sigh.
    Line 973 - Query word sigh

tamaracks at the right of his destination, which he meant to reach by
    Line 976 - Query word destination

was he aware of the deviation until he was confronted by the thick
    Line 981 - Query word aware

was he aware of the deviation until he was confronted by the thick
    Line 981 - Query word deviation

Suspending temporarily his meditations, he came upon a path which ran
    Line 983 - Query word Suspending

transversely through the shrubs, and which crossed at right angles
    Line 984 - Query word transversely

transversely through the shrubs, and which crossed at right angles
    Line 984 - Query word angles

standing stub. Glancing around and satisfying himself that he was not
    Line 989 - Query word Glancing

observed he said slowly and emphatically,
    Line 990 - Query word emphatically

"Proposition I.: The will of man has the power of independent
    Line 992 - Query word independent

decision.
    Line 993 - Query word decision

persuasive and not coercive." Here the major paused and spatted his
    Line 996 - Query word persuasive

persuasive and not coercive." Here the major paused and spatted his
    Line 996 - Query word coercive

persuasive and not coercive." Here the major paused and spatted his
    Line 996 - Query word spatted

hands with great emphasis.
    Line 997 - Query word emphasis

There was a rustling in the bushes followed by a succession of very
    Line 1001 - Query word rustling

There was a rustling in the bushes followed by a succession of very
    Line 1001 - Query word succession

rapid and heavy blows from an ax. Going around the stub, the major
    Line 1002 - Query word rapid

maintained, would soon have cut down the patch of grubs so
    Line 1004 - Query word grubs

circumscribing to the observations of Mrs. Grippin. It is impossible
    Line 1005 - Query word circumscribing

soliloquy.
    Line 1009 - Query word soliloquy

"Yes," answered Archer, springing toward a sapling, which he felled
    Line 1019 - Query word felled

at a few tremendous strokes.
    Line 1020 - Query word tremendous

"I would not heat myself too much," protested the major. "There are
    Line 1022 - Query word protested

exertions as you are would be encumbered by two coats and a jacket."
    Line 1028 - Query word encumbered

exertions as you are would be encumbered by two coats and a jacket."
    Line 1028 - Query word coats

aside his superfluous clothing. "Whew, but it's warm!"
    Line 1031 - Query word Whew

Archer, clearing his throat, struck up a fragment of a song, whose
    Line 1036 - Query word fragment

    And this daughter, she had a lover
    Line 1042 - Query word lover

At the conclusion of the doggerel strain, the woods were ringing with
    Line 1045 - Query word doggerel

life. A saw vibrated more energetically than the one which Ratke had
    Line 1046 - Query word vibrated

life. A saw vibrated more energetically than the one which Ratke had
    Line 1046 - Query word energetically

first heard, and several axes were swung so rapidly as to produce
    Line 1047 - Query word axes

first heard, and several axes were swung so rapidly as to produce
    Line 1047 - Query word swung

almost a clatter.
    Line 1048 - Query word clatter

suspicion, resulted in a fit of violent coughing, and he was obliged
    Line 1055 - Query word resulted

suspicion, resulted in a fit of violent coughing, and he was obliged
    Line 1055 - Query word coughing

to seat himself on a log and wait until the paroxysm had passed.
    Line 1056 - Query word paroxysm

worse by getting heated."
    Line 1059 - Query word heated

"No, you are in a bad condition," contradicted the major. "I insist
    Line 1063 - Query word contradicted

"No, you are in a bad condition," contradicted the major. "I insist
    Line 1063 - Query word insist

that you take a more moderate gait. I do not wish you to exhaust your
    Line 1064 - Query word exhaust

energy before the commencement of the summer's work. I must go up
    Line 1065 - Query word commencement

"Hanged if I ain't ashamed," commented Daggett, when the major had
    Line 1068 - Query word Hanged

the first thing we know he comes around and tells us to go slower. I
    Line 1070 - Query word tells

half believe that, if I was well, I'd pitch in and work decent for
    Line 1071 - Query word decent

"No, it wasn't," affirmed Daggett, forgetting his resolution to be
    Line 1078 - Query word forgetting

"No, it wasn't," affirmed Daggett, forgetting his resolution to be
    Line 1078 - Query word resolution

industrious. "We'll get even with him for that. Go up and tell him
    Line 1079 - Query word industrious

Archer, whose craving for sleep had been nearly satisfied by
    Line 1082 - Query word craving

indulgence, was not loth to leave his position as sentinel. Such a
    Line 1083 - Query word loth

summons was usually the forerunner of sport, and he believed, from
    Line 1084 - Query word forerunner

coming amusement, he was not to pay the reckoning.
    Line 1086 - Query word reckoning

But the discontented looks of the men gave token that they were not
    Line 1088 - Query word discontented

But the discontented looks of the men gave token that they were not
    Line 1088 - Query word token

in the best of humor, while by their frequent glances toward him he
    Line 1089 - Query word frequent

was warned that he was the object of their dissatisfaction.
    Line 1090 - Query word dissatisfaction

vocalization, "after the boss had got here. That was a great way to
    Line 1096 - Query word vocalization

philosophy trash."
    Line 1101 - Query word trash

Provitin' I cootn't vake up a little vile, I voot co to pet."
    Line 1104 - Query word cootn't

Provitin' I cootn't vake up a little vile, I voot co to pet."
    Line 1104 - Query word vile

Provitin' I cootn't vake up a little vile, I voot co to pet."
    Line 1104 - Query word pet

Archer was seized, and, despite his struggles and threats, thrown to
    Line 1108 - Query word despite

Archer was seized, and, despite his struggles and threats, thrown to
    Line 1108 - Query word struggles

the ground, when the men began to cover him with brush. Whenever he
    Line 1109 - Query word cover

attempted to rise, he was pushed back; and, as soon as he threw aside
    Line 1110 - Query word rise

a bush, it was succeeded by another. So, realizing the uselessness of
    Line 1111 - Query word bush

a bush, it was succeeded by another. So, realizing the uselessness of
    Line 1111 - Query word uselessness

lain so long that they have been grown over by sod. Pile on those old
    Line 1121 - Query word lain

lain so long that they have been grown over by sod. Pile on those old
    Line 1121 - Query word sod

Thereupon, to Daggett's delight and Archer's dismay, the major
    Line 1124 - Query word Thereupon

Thereupon, to Daggett's delight and Archer's dismay, the major
    Line 1124 - Query word delight

Thereupon, to Daggett's delight and Archer's dismay, the major
    Line 1124 - Query word dismay

"It will not go," remarked the major, as the flame flickered and died
    Line 1138 - Query word flame

"It will not go," remarked the major, as the flame flickered and died
    Line 1138 - Query word flickered

manifestation of his employer's kindness.
    Line 1148 - Query word employer's

"What, mutiny?" exclaimed the major, putting his arm around the young
    Line 1150 - Query word mutiny

man and dragging him along. "You see that you have no option in the
    Line 1151 - Query word option

disappearance. He had a suspicion that the philosopher, even when he
    Line 1155 - Query word disappearance

was showing him such marks of kindness, understood the faithlessness
    Line 1156 - Query word showing

shrubs, he saw a head of wavy black hair emerging from a brush-heap
    Line 1158 - Query word wavy

and a fist shaken viciously toward him, but he kept the discovery to
    Line 1159 - Query word fist

and a fist shaken viciously toward him, but he kept the discovery to
    Line 1159 - Query word shaken

The first missive which the major opened bore a Washington postmark
    Line 1175 - Query word postmark

    Washington, D. C., March 4, 187-
    Line 1179 - Query word D

    Washington, D. C., March 4, 187-
    Line 1179 - Query word C

    Dear Sir:--As the commissioner expresses doubt concerning
    Line 1183 - Query word commissioner

    Dear Sir:--As the commissioner expresses doubt concerning
    Line 1183 - Query word expresses

    F. B. Sackett.
    Line 1190 - Query word F

    F. B. Sackett.
    Line 1190 - Query word Sackett

"The leech!" muttered the major; "he would gorge himself with my
    Line 1193 - Query word leech

"The leech!" muttered the major; "he would gorge himself with my
    Line 1193 - Query word muttered

"The leech!" muttered the major; "he would gorge himself with my
    Line 1193 - Query word gorge

bid defiance to patent lawyers and creditors. What do I care for the
    Line 1195 - Query word lawyers

bid defiance to patent lawyers and creditors. What do I care for the
    Line 1195 - Query word creditors

few drops the insect gets if their place will soon be supplied by a
    Line 1196 - Query word insect

liberal infusion which will send vigor through my veins?"
    Line 1197 - Query word infusion

liberal infusion which will send vigor through my veins?"
    Line 1197 - Query word veins

    mentioned. He says he cannot postpone the foreclosure of the
    Line 1207 - Query word postpone

The effect of the two communications was to produce an unwonted
    Line 1215 - Query word communications

The effect of the two communications was to produce an unwonted
    Line 1215 - Query word unwonted

depression in the major's spirits. It was as if a cloud of whose
    Line 1216 - Query word spirits

existence he had been not ignorant, but to which he had been
    Line 1217 - Query word ignorant

inattentive, had suddenly by a warning bolt made him give heed to its
    Line 1218 - Query word inattentive

of the perplexing difficulty. Schemes which were his hope, his very
    Line 1222 - Query word perplexing

life, demanded money for their furtherance. His produce was sold, his
    Line 1223 - Query word furtherance

pocket-book empty, his credit gone. He realized his situation; and,
    Line 1224 - Query word realized

pocket-book empty, his credit gone. He realized his situation; and,
    Line 1224 - Query word situation

in the distance, he felt he saw, approaching, calamities which would
    Line 1225 - Query word calamities

destroy his dearest projects and involve in ruin himself and his
    Line 1226 - Query word dearest

destroy his dearest projects and involve in ruin himself and his
    Line 1226 - Query word involve

The visitor was William Henry Harrison Hibbard, whose first three
    Line 1232 - Query word Hibbard

names had been given him at his birth, applied in sport during his
    Line 1233 - Query word birth

boyhood, and used through habit when he had reached man's estate.
    Line 1234 - Query word boyhood

if not to imbecility, to a state of intelligence considerably below
    Line 1236 - Query word imbecility

mediocrity. The spring before, the Republicans of Jefferson township
    Line 1237 - Query word mediocrity

the Democrats had so far fallen in with the joke that, though they
    Line 1239 - Query word joke

had a large majority, the half-wit was elected.
    Line 1240 - Query word majority

had a large majority, the half-wit was elected.
    Line 1240 - Query word elected

William Henry Harrison was tall and slender, his mouth was large, and
    Line 1242 - Query word slender

his hair was light The most conspicuous part of his raiment was a
    Line 1243 - Query word raiment

long, loose ducking jacket which was belted tightly about the waist,
    Line 1244 - Query word ducking

long, loose ducking jacket which was belted tightly about the waist,
    Line 1244 - Query word belted

and whose lower edges flared out from his body like an umbrella top.
    Line 1245 - Query word edges

and whose lower edges flared out from his body like an umbrella top.
    Line 1245 - Query word flared

and whose lower edges flared out from his body like an umbrella top.
    Line 1245 - Query word umbrella

As this was his most expensive article of clothing, and as he never
    Line 1246 - Query word expensive

As this was his most expensive article of clothing, and as he never
    Line 1246 - Query word article

wore it except on important occasions, it was by the local wits
    Line 1247 - Query word occasions

wore it except on important occasions, it was by the local wits
    Line 1247 - Query word wits

believe you beat Johnny Hemp?"
    Line 1256 - Query word Johnny

believe you beat Johnny Hemp?"
    Line 1256 - Query word Hemp

"Yes, I lick 'im. I run 'way 'head."
    Line 1258 - Query word lick

"Did you ever arrest anybody or serve a summons?" inquired Ratke.
    Line 1260 - Query word arrest

"Did you ever arrest anybody or serve a summons?" inquired Ratke.
    Line 1260 - Query word serve

"Dono, guess not," replied the half-wit.
    Line 1262 - Query word Dono

law you are a pinion, whirled by the belts and pulleys of courts,
    Line 1265 - Query word belts

law you are a pinion, whirled by the belts and pulleys of courts,
    Line 1265 - Query word pulleys

law you are a pinion, whirled by the belts and pulleys of courts,
    Line 1265 - Query word courts

which are, in turn, propelled by the engine of legislation. But you
    Line 1266 - Query word propelled

which are, in turn, propelled by the engine of legislation. But you
    Line 1266 - Query word legislation

of many who think themselves your superiors. Content, as you are,
    Line 1268 - Query word superiors

"Yes," remarked William Henry Harrison, "engine might bust."
    Line 1271 - Query word bust

"By George!" exclaimed the major, "but there is wisdom in that. The
    Line 1273 - Query word George

hollow engine may, itself, generate the power by which it is rent.
    Line 1275 - Query word generate

Likewise, the humble mind escapes those internal conflicts which
    Line 1276 - Query word humble

Likewise, the humble mind escapes those internal conflicts which
    Line 1276 - Query word escapes

Likewise, the humble mind escapes those internal conflicts which
    Line 1276 - Query word internal

Likewise, the humble mind escapes those internal conflicts which
    Line 1276 - Query word conflicts

bring ruin to some of the mightier intellects. William Henry
    Line 1277 - Query word mightier

bring ruin to some of the mightier intellects. William Henry
    Line 1277 - Query word intellects

Harrison, that, is the wisest remark I have heard in a month."
    Line 1278 - Query word wisest

Upon this unusual compliment, the author of the saying so highly
    Line 1280 - Query word highly

praised grinned, covered his mouth with his hand and looked steadily
    Line 1281 - Query word grinned

The major, tiring of the half-wit's scrutiny, had recourse to a
    Line 1284 - Query word tiring

The major, tiring of the half-wit's scrutiny, had recourse to a
    Line 1284 - Query word recourse

stratagem which seldom fails to remind a forgetful guest of the
    Line 1285 - Query word stratagem

stratagem which seldom fails to remind a forgetful guest of the
    Line 1285 - Query word remind

stratagem which seldom fails to remind a forgetful guest of the
    Line 1285 - Query word forgetful

"Oh, it is a paper you are serving on me!" exclaimed Ratke. "Make
    Line 1298 - Query word serving

Green give you your regular fee, and tell him that constables are not
    Line 1299 - Query word constables

obliged to take straw hats in payment for the performance of legal
    Line 1300 - Query word performance

duties."
    Line 1301 - Query word duties

The document proved to be a summons which had been issued by Justice
    Line 1303 - Query word document

Lyman Sparks, in behalf of Josiah Green, who had purchased a note due
    Line 1304 - Query word behalf

Lyman Sparks, in behalf of Josiah Green, who had purchased a note due
    Line 1304 - Query word purchased

Lyman Sparks, in behalf of Josiah Green, who had purchased a note due
    Line 1304 - Query word due

the Buckeye Manufacturing Co. of Marlboro, Ohio.
    Line 1305 - Query word Manufacturing

the Buckeye Manufacturing Co. of Marlboro, Ohio.
    Line 1305 - Query word Marlboro

the Buckeye Manufacturing Co. of Marlboro, Ohio.
    Line 1305 - Query word Ohio

performed your errand. Tell him that I bound up his financial wounds
    Line 1308 - Query word financial

when the priest and the Levite passed him by. Tell him I lent him
    Line 1309 - Query word priest

when the priest and the Levite passed him by. Tell him I lent him
    Line 1309 - Query word Levite

else would trust him. Tell him he owes me yet for a cow and wheat
    Line 1311 - Query word owes

"Halt," ordered the major, as the unique constable moved toward the
    Line 1317 - Query word unique

please him to think he is relieved from the expense of feeding you.
    Line 1320 - Query word feeding

Maria rang the saw before you served the summons."
    Line 1321 - Query word rang

preponderance of memory over the reflectives. Your mind is not
    Line 1327 - Query word memory

preponderance of memory over the reflectives. Your mind is not
    Line 1327 - Query word reflectives

brilliant, and, when by accident you stumble upon a sensible
    Line 1328 - Query word accident

brilliant, and, when by accident you stumble upon a sensible
    Line 1328 - Query word stumble

brilliant, and, when by accident you stumble upon a sensible
    Line 1328 - Query word sensible

expression, it shines as forcibly as a bolt of lightning from the
    Line 1329 - Query word shines

darkened sky at midnight. Do you understand what I say?"
    Line 1330 - Query word sky

darkened sky at midnight. Do you understand what I say?"
    Line 1330 - Query word midnight

smarter man than I have."
    Line 1338 - Query word smarter

William Henry Harrison was so pleased with Ratke's approbation that,
    Line 1340 - Query word approbation

at supper, he endeavored to obtain more of it by delivering some
    Line 1341 - Query word delivering

witty speeches. Disappointed in receiving encouragement to continue
    Line 1342 - Query word witty

visible in several prolonged grins, the last of which was frozen by
    Line 1344 - Query word prolonged

visible in several prolonged grins, the last of which was frozen by
    Line 1344 - Query word grins

visible in several prolonged grins, the last of which was frozen by
    Line 1344 - Query word frozen

one of Mrs. Grippin's frowns.
    Line 1345 - Query word frowns

his limbs alternately contracting and expanding to their utmost
    Line 1354 - Query word contracting

his limbs alternately contracting and expanding to their utmost
    Line 1354 - Query word expanding

capacity. The half-wit's eyes were rolled back, his face contorted,
    Line 1355 - Query word contorted

his figure writhing and twisting and his lips covered with froth. On
    Line 1356 - Query word froth

the floor about him were the fragments of a large mirror, which had
    Line 1357 - Query word fragments

"You needn't wonder," returned Mrs. Grippin. "He did it to be mean,
    Line 1365 - Query word needn't

just to tantalize you. If it ain't legal, he'll send another man with
    Line 1366 - Query word tantalize

him some things. If it hadn't been for you, he'd have starved and his
    Line 1368 - Query word he'd

him some things. If it hadn't been for you, he'd have starved and his
    Line 1368 - Query word starved

aunt's husband. But that don't make any difference. I should think
    Line 1370 - Query word aunt's

aunt's husband. But that don't make any difference. I should think
    Line 1370 - Query word husband

live to be as old as Methuselah. Him, a member of the church, making
    Line 1373 - Query word Methuselah

cider and selling it to get men drunk."
    Line 1374 - Query word selling

can do so much harm. I can explain it in no way except by the law of
    Line 1383 - Query word explain

virtual velocities: 'Power, multiplied by the distance through which
    Line 1384 - Query word virtual

virtual velocities: 'Power, multiplied by the distance through which
    Line 1384 - Query word velocities

it moves, equals weight, multiplied by the distance through which it
    Line 1385 - Query word equals

moves.' To accomplish a given result, then, a man of half average
    Line 1386 - Query word accomplish

moves.' To accomplish a given result, then, a man of half average
    Line 1386 - Query word average

ability must move through twice the space, or, in other words, bestir
    Line 1387 - Query word bestir

Montcalm informed Ratke that he had left William Henry Harrison at
    Line 1391 - Query word informed

was unhitching a tug.
    Line 1395 - Query word unhitching

was unhitching a tug.
    Line 1395 - Query word tug

said Ratke, "disgraced themselves by electing that poor idiot boy to
    Line 1400 - Query word disgraced

said Ratke, "disgraced themselves by electing that poor idiot boy to
    Line 1400 - Query word electing

the office of constable. Today he made his first official visit."
    Line 1401 - Query word Today

tongue. If he gives a knowledge of his affairs to the gossips, he
    Line 1407 - Query word gives

tongue. If he gives a knowledge of his affairs to the gossips, he
    Line 1407 - Query word gossips

places them before a double convex lens, which may converge the heat
    Line 1408 - Query word double

places them before a double convex lens, which may converge the heat
    Line 1408 - Query word convex

places them before a double convex lens, which may converge the heat
    Line 1408 - Query word lens

places them before a double convex lens, which may converge the heat
    Line 1408 - Query word converge

of public scrutiny to melt his gold, as that metal is sometimes
    Line 1409 - Query word melt

of public scrutiny to melt his gold, as that metal is sometimes
    Line 1409 - Query word gold

melted at a powerful focus."
    Line 1410 - Query word melted

melted at a powerful focus."
    Line 1410 - Query word focus

"I have no wish to pry into your affairs," replied Montcalm. "On the
    Line 1412 - Query word pry

contrary, I am opposed to receiving from you any confidence which you
    Line 1413 - Query word opposed

"This much I can tell you. Trace," said Ratke. "The constable's
    Line 1416 - Query word constable's

errand was not to perform a duty connected with criminal law."
    Line 1417 - Query word criminal

It often happens that a skillful investigator will by professed
    Line 1423 - Query word skillful

It often happens that a skillful investigator will by professed
    Line 1423 - Query word investigator

indifference lull suspicions of his art and extract much information
    Line 1424 - Query word suspicions

indifference lull suspicions of his art and extract much information
    Line 1424 - Query word extract

was done by Montcalm. Ratke thought that he had been boorish with the
    Line 1426 - Query word boorish

son of his old comrade. He would atone for his surliness by a partial
    Line 1427 - Query word surliness

explanation.
    Line 1428 - Query word explanation

"This is a civil matter," he remarked, "a little debt which I owe and
    Line 1430 - Query word civil

which I thought would not be presented for collection in a year."
    Line 1431 - Query word collection

to like to listen to me, Trace. I have been sued by Green. He has
    Line 1439 - Query word sued

serious, but some other things unite with it to make up a combination
    Line 1441 - Query word serious

serious, but some other things unite with it to make up a combination
    Line 1441 - Query word unite

wagon into the market. Both are wedged in the narrow passage of
    Line 1448 - Query word wedged

fatality, each waiting to be extricated by help from the other.
    Line 1449 - Query word fatality

fatality, each waiting to be extricated by help from the other.
    Line 1449 - Query word extricated

To-day I received a letter from my patent lawyer, stating that he
    Line 1450 - Query word stating

to get her in two weeks. I can muster not more than twenty-five
    Line 1453 - Query word muster

dollars with which to meet these sums, I own a farm, the Barton
    Line 1454 - Query word sums

unencumbered. I might mortgage that, but I hate to do it."
    Line 1456 - Query word unencumbered

"Is that the extent of your trouble?" asked Montcalm. "I can lend you
    Line 1458 - Query word lend

"In what kind of stock have you invested?" queried Ratke.
    Line 1467 - Query word invested

of the company is bound to keep its operations secret."
    Line 1470 - Query word operations

"Get out of it as soon as you can," advised Ratke. "It is fraudulent,
    Line 1472 - Query word fraudulent

will withdraw my capital."
    Line 1476 - Query word withdraw

"I am suspicious of such organizations," said Ratke. "Did you ever
    Line 1478 - Query word organizations

"That," pursued Ratke, "was the most successful swindle which was
    Line 1483 - Query word swindle

price, minus the agent's fee of twenty-five per cent. Thus, for each
    Line 1487 - Query word minus

price, minus the agent's fee of twenty-five per cent. Thus, for each
    Line 1487 - Query word agent's

"After harvest the agents were not to be found. Then the crisis came.
    Line 1494 - Query word crisis

innocent purchasers and, of course, had to be paid. Men put their
    Line 1496 - Query word innocent

innocent purchasers and, of course, had to be paid. Men put their
    Line 1496 - Query word purchasers

property out of their hands to avoid payment. Jasper Smith, a
    Line 1497 - Query word Jasper

prosperous farmer who had been defrauded to the amount of twelve
    Line 1498 - Query word prosperous

prosperous farmer who had been defrauded to the amount of twelve
    Line 1498 - Query word defrauded

prosperous farmer who had been defrauded to the amount of twelve
    Line 1498 - Query word twelve

hundred dollars, hung himself in his own barn. Yet this lesson,
    Line 1499 - Query word lesson

severe as it was, did not educate the people. They would seize with
    Line 1500 - Query word educate

severe as it was, did not educate the people. They would seize with
    Line 1500 - Query word seize

avidity the next chance to be swindled."
    Line 1501 - Query word avidity

avidity the next chance to be swindled."
    Line 1501 - Query word swindled

Montcalm. "By that time I shall have doubled my investment."
    Line 1504 - Query word investment

come here. I would give him a snub which he would not soon forget."
    Line 1508 - Query word snub

"The company will not attempt to inveigle you," replied Montcalm. "It
    Line 1510 - Query word inveigle

"How clannish!" Ratke exclaimed, "to want to keep a good thing all to
    Line 1514 - Query word clannish

itself. I have no patience with such companies. You can tell me
    Line 1515 - Query word companies

"Not without a permit from the president and directors," answered
    Line 1518 - Query word permit

"Not without a permit from the president and directors," answered
    Line 1518 - Query word president

"Not without a permit from the president and directors," answered
    Line 1518 - Query word directors

Montcalm. "I must keep my promise of secrecy, even though I offend my
    Line 1519 - Query word offend

certain of my cigars, however. They will admit no new members."
    Line 1534 - Query word admit

"They are very exclusive," commented the major. "Are they afraid of
    Line 1536 - Query word exclusive

than I. My ancestor, Johann Ratke, was a grandson of Martin Gerard,
    Line 1538 - Query word ancestor

than I. My ancestor, Johann Ratke, was a grandson of Martin Gerard,
    Line 1538 - Query word Johann

than I. My ancestor, Johann Ratke, was a grandson of Martin Gerard,
    Line 1538 - Query word grandson

than I. My ancestor, Johann Ratke, was a grandson of Martin Gerard,
    Line 1538 - Query word Gerard

the uncle of Erasmus. What king of the fourteenth century wielded a
    Line 1539 - Query word Erasmus

the uncle of Erasmus. What king of the fourteenth century wielded a
    Line 1539 - Query word wielded

more powerful and more enduring scepter than the philosopher of
    Line 1540 - Query word enduring

more powerful and more enduring scepter than the philosopher of
    Line 1540 - Query word scepter

Rotterdam?"
    Line 1541 - Query word Rotterdam

The next Sunday was cloudy and cold. The raw west wind swept along
    Line 1547 - Query word cloudy

The next Sunday was cloudy and cold. The raw west wind swept along
    Line 1547 - Query word raw

The next Sunday was cloudy and cold. The raw west wind swept along
    Line 1547 - Query word swept

stray flakes of snow in almost horizontal lines. Saturday Wingscheut
    Line 1548 - Query word flakes

stray flakes of snow in almost horizontal lines. Saturday Wingscheut
    Line 1548 - Query word horizontal

stray flakes of snow in almost horizontal lines. Saturday Wingscheut
    Line 1548 - Query word Saturday

had hailed the sight of a chipmunk as a certain omen of immediate
    Line 1549 - Query word hailed

had hailed the sight of a chipmunk as a certain omen of immediate
    Line 1549 - Query word chipmunk

had hailed the sight of a chipmunk as a certain omen of immediate
    Line 1549 - Query word omen

spring; and this bleak Sabbath had followed, as if the very elements
    Line 1550 - Query word bleak

delighted to disprove the predictions of the false prophet.
    Line 1551 - Query word delighted

delighted to disprove the predictions of the false prophet.
    Line 1551 - Query word disprove

delighted to disprove the predictions of the false prophet.
    Line 1551 - Query word predictions

delighted to disprove the predictions of the false prophet.
    Line 1551 - Query word false

delighted to disprove the predictions of the false prophet.
    Line 1551 - Query word prophet

For six successive days Mrs. Grippin had been indulging in regret and
    Line 1553 - Query word successive

For six successive days Mrs. Grippin had been indulging in regret and
    Line 1553 - Query word indulging

the rain which had furnished an excuse for non-attendance, blame for
    Line 1555 - Query word attendance

the inconsistency of the boastful soldier and philosopher, who
    Line 1556 - Query word inconsistency

the inconsistency of the boastful soldier and philosopher, who
    Line 1556 - Query word boastful

the inconsistency of the boastful soldier and philosopher, who
    Line 1556 - Query word soldier

bragged of indifference to red-hot cannon balls, and yet was afraid
    Line 1557 - Query word bragged

bragged of indifference to red-hot cannon balls, and yet was afraid
    Line 1557 - Query word cannon

bragged of indifference to red-hot cannon balls, and yet was afraid
    Line 1557 - Query word balls

For these trials the major had his consolation. It was the common lot
    Line 1560 - Query word trials

of philosophers to be censured and abused. Did not Guericke suffer
    Line 1561 - Query word philosophers

of philosophers to be censured and abused. Did not Guericke suffer
    Line 1561 - Query word Guericke

of philosophers to be censured and abused. Did not Guericke suffer
    Line 1561 - Query word suffer

from popular ignorance and prejudice? Was not Galileo assailed and
    Line 1562 - Query word ignorance

from popular ignorance and prejudice? Was not Galileo assailed and
    Line 1562 - Query word prejudice

from popular ignorance and prejudice? Was not Galileo assailed and
    Line 1562 - Query word Galileo

from popular ignorance and prejudice? Was not Galileo assailed and
    Line 1562 - Query word assailed

even obliged to retract his theories? And had not Socrates his
    Line 1563 - Query word retract

even obliged to retract his theories? And had not Socrates his
    Line 1563 - Query word Socrates

Xantippe, the prototype of Mrs. Grippin?
    Line 1564 - Query word Xantippe

Xantippe, the prototype of Mrs. Grippin?
    Line 1564 - Query word prototype

The church, which was of good size, considering its country location,
    Line 1566 - Query word considering

stood on a slight elevation, about three-fourths of a mile west of
    Line 1567 - Query word fourths

the Ratke dwelling. Between the edifices the ground curved and merged
    Line 1568 - Query word edifices

the Ratke dwelling. Between the edifices the ground curved and merged
    Line 1568 - Query word curved

the Ratke dwelling. Between the edifices the ground curved and merged
    Line 1568 - Query word merged

in a miniature valley which occupied most of the distance. Southwest
    Line 1569 - Query word valley

in a miniature valley which occupied most of the distance. Southwest
    Line 1569 - Query word Southwest

of the house of worship were the farm buildings and cider mill of
    Line 1570 - Query word worship

The pastor, a man quick to discover motes and beams in the eyes of
    Line 1573 - Query word pastor

The pastor, a man quick to discover motes and beams in the eyes of
    Line 1573 - Query word discover

The pastor, a man quick to discover motes and beams in the eyes of
    Line 1573 - Query word motes

The pastor, a man quick to discover motes and beams in the eyes of
    Line 1573 - Query word beams

his congregation, and ready to grab at the offending particle or bulk
    Line 1574 - Query word grab

his congregation, and ready to grab at the offending particle or bulk
    Line 1574 - Query word offending

his congregation, and ready to grab at the offending particle or bulk
    Line 1574 - Query word bulk

the instant of its discovery, had prepared a philippic for the
    Line 1575 - Query word philippic

His text was Romans fourteenth chapter and twenty-first verse: "It is
    Line 1578 - Query word text

His text was Romans fourteenth chapter and twenty-first verse: "It is
    Line 1578 - Query word verse

good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor anything whereby
    Line 1579 - Query word drink

good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor anything whereby
    Line 1579 - Query word whereby

thy brother stumbleth, or is offended, or is made weak."
    Line 1580 - Query word thy

Starting from the premise that each one, in a measure, molds the
    Line 1582 - Query word premise

Starting from the premise that each one, in a measure, molds the
    Line 1582 - Query word molds

character of his neighbor, he launched boldly into the theme of man's
    Line 1583 - Query word launched

character of his neighbor, he launched boldly into the theme of man's
    Line 1583 - Query word theme

responsibility for the conduct of his fellows.
    Line 1584 - Query word responsibility

"What is it that we are to refrain from doing? Anything, remember,
    Line 1586 - Query word refrain

"That which injures our brother maybe quite harmless to ourselves.
    Line 1590 - Query word injures

Nevertheless, if it diminishes his virtue or his faith, we should
    Line 1591 - Query word diminishes

visible only by Him on whom that faith is fixed.
    Line 1593 - Query word fixed

"One of God's people, if he were not in the trammels of Church
    Line 1595 - Query word God's

"One of God's people, if he were not in the trammels of Church
    Line 1595 - Query word trammels

discipline, might be placed in such circumstances that he could dance
    Line 1596 - Query word discipline

discipline, might be placed in such circumstances that he could dance
    Line 1596 - Query word dance

without moral degeneration. But if, thereby, his brother is led into
    Line 1597 - Query word degeneration

without moral degeneration. But if, thereby, his brother is led into
    Line 1597 - Query word thereby

bad company, if possible converts avoid a faith whose votaries seem
    Line 1598 - Query word converts

bad company, if possible converts avoid a faith whose votaries seem
    Line 1598 - Query word votaries

insincere, it is his duty to lop off the pleasure, even though it be
    Line 1599 - Query word insincere

insincere, it is his duty to lop off the pleasure, even though it be
    Line 1599 - Query word lop

insincere, it is his duty to lop off the pleasure, even though it be
    Line 1599 - Query word pleasure

"Card-playing could be indulged in without sin, provided we were sure
    Line 1602 - Query word indulged

that no sinful consequences would follow the game. There is no
    Line 1603 - Query word sinful

that no sinful consequences would follow the game. There is no
    Line 1603 - Query word consequences

contamination in the pictures or the card-board. The queen of clubs
    Line 1604 - Query word pictures

contamination in the pictures or the card-board. The queen of clubs
    Line 1604 - Query word queen

does not look wholly depraved. The king of hearts, though his
    Line 1605 - Query word hearts

appearance is not prepossessing, is too lazy and inefficient to be a
    Line 1606 - Query word prepossessing

power for evil. Bibles which carry a knowledge of the Saviour to the
    Line 1607 - Query word Bibles

power for evil. Bibles which carry a knowledge of the Saviour to the
    Line 1607 - Query word Saviour

center of barbarism, are made from the same material as spades and
    Line 1608 - Query word barbarism

center of barbarism, are made from the same material as spades and
    Line 1608 - Query word spades

aces. But for all that, card-playing entices to evil. Card-playing
    Line 1609 - Query word aces

aces. But for all that, card-playing entices to evil. Card-playing
    Line 1609 - Query word entices

should be tolerated in no Christian or moral home.
    Line 1610 - Query word tolerated

should be tolerated in no Christian or moral home.
    Line 1610 - Query word Christian

guaranteed never to touch the lips of man? Yet, cider is the greatest
    Line 1613 - Query word guaranteed

curse which this community has ever seen. More, than beer, more than
    Line 1614 - Query word curse

curse which this community has ever seen. More, than beer, more than
    Line 1614 - Query word beer

whisky, more than the horse-thieves, against whom so many anathemas
    Line 1615 - Query word anathemas

have been breathed, cider is bringing its awful harvest of pain and
    Line 1616 - Query word breathed

whose cellars are cider barrels, whose sons, following their father's
    Line 1618 - Query word cellars

whose cellars are cider barrels, whose sons, following their father's
    Line 1618 - Query word barrels

lead, descend the stairs, turn the faucet and change themselves into
    Line 1619 - Query word faucet

receptacles of the potion which would make fiends of angels. Ay,
    Line 1620 - Query word receptacles

receptacles of the potion which would make fiends of angels. Ay,
    Line 1620 - Query word potion

receptacles of the potion which would make fiends of angels. Ay,
    Line 1620 - Query word fiends

receptacles of the potion which would make fiends of angels. Ay,
    Line 1620 - Query word angels

receptacles of the potion which would make fiends of angels. Ay,
    Line 1620 - Query word Ay

brethren, I see those who manufacture the damning beverage poured
    Line 1621 - Query word brethren

brethren, I see those who manufacture the damning beverage poured
    Line 1621 - Query word manufacture

brethren, I see those who manufacture the damning beverage poured
    Line 1621 - Query word damning

into the throats of topers and of boys now unpolluted, to lure them
    Line 1622 - Query word throats

into the throats of topers and of boys now unpolluted, to lure them
    Line 1622 - Query word unpolluted

into the throats of topers and of boys now unpolluted, to lure them
    Line 1622 - Query word lure

on to places of infamy, to leave them helplessly wallowing in the
    Line 1623 - Query word infamy

on to places of infamy, to leave them helplessly wallowing in the
    Line 1623 - Query word helplessly

on to places of infamy, to leave them helplessly wallowing in the
    Line 1623 - Query word wallowing

mire of debauchery and whiskey, for whisky is the natural successor
    Line 1624 - Query word debauchery

mire of debauchery and whiskey, for whisky is the natural successor
    Line 1624 - Query word whiskey

mire of debauchery and whiskey, for whisky is the natural successor
    Line 1624 - Query word successor

of cider. And these men, together with their victims, are descending
    Line 1625 - Query word victims

to the lake of fire and brimstone, not on a stream of pure water
    Line 1626 - Query word lake

to the lake of fire and brimstone, not on a stream of pure water
    Line 1626 - Query word brimstone

to the lake of fire and brimstone, not on a stream of pure water
    Line 1626 - Query word pure

reflecting the sunlight from its sandy bed, but along a river of
    Line 1627 - Query word reflecting

reflecting the sunlight from its sandy bed, but along a river of
    Line 1627 - Query word sunlight

yellow cider reeking with the smell of rotten pomace and of dead
    Line 1628 - Query word reeking

yellow cider reeking with the smell of rotten pomace and of dead
    Line 1628 - Query word smell

yellow cider reeking with the smell of rotten pomace and of dead
    Line 1628 - Query word pomace

men's bones."
    Line 1629 - Query word bones

The rural preacher supported the above denunciation by awkward
    Line 1631 - Query word denunciation

The rural preacher supported the above denunciation by awkward
    Line 1631 - Query word awkward

gestures and a high degree of earnestness. Green's manner, while he
    Line 1632 - Query word gestures

gestures and a high degree of earnestness. Green's manner, while he
    Line 1632 - Query word earnestness

was receiving in addition to this chastisement the glances of most of
    Line 1633 - Query word chastisement

the congregation, was less perturbed than usual. He was a spare,
    Line 1634 - Query word perturbed

look out of the window, to cross and recross his legs and to show
    Line 1636 - Query word recross

other signs of restlessness.
    Line 1637 - Query word restlessness

On this occasion, leaning his elbows on the back of the pew in front
    Line 1639 - Query word elbows

On this occasion, leaning his elbows on the back of the pew in front
    Line 1639 - Query word pew

indorse the sermon and to have no suspicion that it was intended for
    Line 1641 - Query word indorse

indorse the sermon and to have no suspicion that it was intended for
    Line 1641 - Query word sermon

him; and, when he received a bolt more crushing than its predecessor,
    Line 1642 - Query word predecessor

he smiled, as if approving the condemnation which was to be meted out
    Line 1643 - Query word smiled

he smiled, as if approving the condemnation which was to be meted out
    Line 1643 - Query word approving

he smiled, as if approving the condemnation which was to be meted out
    Line 1643 - Query word condemnation

rejoices that he has finished an unpleasant duty.
    Line 1648 - Query word rejoices

Montcalm was invited to a position in the choir as he and Manie sang
    Line 1650 - Query word choir

Montcalm was invited to a position in the choir as he and Manie sang
    Line 1650 - Query word sang

from the same book, many a rustic swain shared the jealousy of
    Line 1651 - Query word rustic

from the same book, many a rustic swain shared the jealousy of
    Line 1651 - Query word swain

from the same book, many a rustic swain shared the jealousy of
    Line 1651 - Query word jealousy

After class meeting Lyman Sparks arose to make "a sejestion."
    Line 1654 - Query word sejestion

"There's one thing we forgot about, brothers and sisters the donation
    Line 1656 - Query word brothers

"There's one thing we forgot about, brothers and sisters the donation
    Line 1656 - Query word sisters

needcessties o'the 'casion. Of course, there'll be some needcessties,
    Line 1658 - Query word o'the

committee o'three to pervide for the 'casion."
    Line 1660 - Query word o'three

committee o'three to pervide for the 'casion."
    Line 1660 - Query word pervide

Sparks was chosen as the last committee man, the benediction was
    Line 1668 - Query word chosen

Sparks was chosen as the last committee man, the benediction was
    Line 1668 - Query word benediction

pronounced and the people dispersed.
    Line 1669 - Query word pronounced

"I'd like to see Lime Sparks tell me what to cook," said Mrs.
    Line 1671 - Query word Lime

"I'd like to see Lime Sparks tell me what to cook," said Mrs.
    Line 1671 - Query word cook

poking their noses around where I'm cooking, they'll get out, that's
    Line 1673 - Query word noses

poking their noses around where I'm cooking, they'll get out, that's
    Line 1673 - Query word cooking

Nora entertained Fred Loomis, the clerk in Dr. Rorus' drug-store at
    Line 1677 - Query word entertained

Break o'Day. Loomis was stylishly attired. He had town manners, a
    Line 1678 - Query word stylishly

Break o'Day. Loomis was stylishly attired. He had town manners, a
    Line 1678 - Query word attired

general deportment, he trusted his judgment implicitly, but, in
    Line 1680 - Query word deportment

general deportment, he trusted his judgment implicitly, but, in
    Line 1680 - Query word implicitly

conversation which required the higher attributes of mind, he felt
    Line 1681 - Query word attributes

amusing, he suppressed a laugh until one of his associates
    Line 1683 - Query word amusing

demonstrated by example the propriety of its indulgence.
    Line 1684 - Query word example

demonstrated by example the propriety of its indulgence.
    Line 1684 - Query word propriety

When evening came, this village dandy, Nora, Manie and Montcalm were
    Line 1686 - Query word dandy

The clerk and Nora on a couch whispered and giggled, while Manie and
    Line 1689 - Query word couch

The clerk and Nora on a couch whispered and giggled, while Manie and
    Line 1689 - Query word giggled

"That is a fine likeness," observed Montcalm, pointing to a portrait
    Line 1693 - Query word likeness

"That is a fine likeness," observed Montcalm, pointing to a portrait
    Line 1693 - Query word pointing

"That is a fine likeness," observed Montcalm, pointing to a portrait
    Line 1693 - Query word portrait

stern, intellectual face. "Every boy knows Senator Mallard's picture.
    Line 1695 - Query word stern

stern, intellectual face. "Every boy knows Senator Mallard's picture.
    Line 1695 - Query word intellectual

stern, intellectual face. "Every boy knows Senator Mallard's picture.
    Line 1695 - Query word Mallard's

One can almost think that he sees the words of his last great speech
    Line 1696 - Query word sees

issuing from those firm-set lips. He is a recognized champion in
    Line 1697 - Query word issuing

"Yes," said Manie. "He and Uncle James were classmates at college. He
    Line 1700 - Query word classmates

Democrat, you know, Every time Senator Mallard comes they engage in a
    Line 1702 - Query word Democrat

Democrat, you know, Every time Senator Mallard comes they engage in a
    Line 1702 - Query word Mallard

hot political discussion, which Uncle James begins, unmindful of his
    Line 1703 - Query word political

hot political discussion, which Uncle James begins, unmindful of his
    Line 1703 - Query word begins

hot political discussion, which Uncle James begins, unmindful of his
    Line 1703 - Query word unmindful

previous defeats. Uncle James says he is the only man who ever
    Line 1704 - Query word defeats

conquered him fairly in argument."
    Line 1705 - Query word conquered

conquered him fairly in argument."
    Line 1705 - Query word fairly

"Conquest by him is no disgrace," returned Montcalm. "It is the
    Line 1707 - Query word Conquest

common fate of those who oppose him. Will you please favor us with a
    Line 1708 - Query word fate

origin of music, and it is what you have shown in the decoration of
    Line 1710 - Query word origin

origin of music, and it is what you have shown in the decoration of
    Line 1710 - Query word decoration

this room. The cheap and the gorgeous you have eschewed, while you
    Line 1711 - Query word gorgeous

this room. The cheap and the gorgeous you have eschewed, while you
    Line 1711 - Query word eschewed

have drawn liberally from unpretentious and intrinsic beauty. The
    Line 1712 - Query word liberally

have drawn liberally from unpretentious and intrinsic beauty. The
    Line 1712 - Query word unpretentious

have drawn liberally from unpretentious and intrinsic beauty. The
    Line 1712 - Query word intrinsic

picture at the right of the mirror is an illustration of my
    Line 1713 - Query word illustration

statement. Here we have, well portrayed, a pleasing scene in rural
    Line 1714 - Query word portrayed

life, a fine house and barn, with mountains looming up in the
    Line 1715 - Query word mountains

life, a fine house and barn, with mountains looming up in the
    Line 1715 - Query word looming

"Everything is unnaturally neat and proper," replied Manie. "The
    Line 1718 - Query word unnaturally

looks as if she were posing for a picture. Nobody ever saw so square
    Line 1720 - Query word posing

is standing so straight that he will bump his head unless he stoops.
    Line 1722 - Query word bump

is standing so straight that he will bump his head unless he stoops.
    Line 1722 - Query word stoops

The artist could have improved the picture by tipping over one of the
    Line 1723 - Query word artist

lightning-rods and tearing down a gate."
    Line 1724 - Query word tearing

"It need not show slovenliness to be accurate," Montcalm answered; "I
    Line 1726 - Query word slovenliness

"It need not show slovenliness to be accurate," Montcalm answered; "I
    Line 1726 - Query word accurate

acknowledge your superiority in logic, but I still contend that I am
    Line 1727 - Query word acknowledge

acknowledge your superiority in logic, but I still contend that I am
    Line 1727 - Query word contend

fat hogs, blooded cattle or smart children. Get your note-book and I
    Line 1732 - Query word hogs

will give you a list of flattering remarks which would insure a sale.
    Line 1733 - Query word list

will give you a list of flattering remarks which would insure a sale.
    Line 1733 - Query word insure

will give you a list of flattering remarks which would insure a sale.
    Line 1733 - Query word sale

"Compliment one, Robust and healthful. Compliment two, Fragile and
    Line 1739 - Query word healthful

"Compliment one, Robust and healthful. Compliment two, Fragile and
    Line 1739 - Query word Fragile

"I am wounded by the lash of sarcasm," said Montcalm. "Each
    Line 1742 - Query word sarcasm

neighborhood has its local satirist, pouring out MacFlecknoes and
    Line 1743 - Query word pouring

neighborhood has its local satirist, pouring out MacFlecknoes and
    Line 1743 - Query word MacFlecknoes

Dunciads on hapless Shadwells and Gibbers. This character, varying in
    Line 1744 - Query word Dunciads

Dunciads on hapless Shadwells and Gibbers. This character, varying in
    Line 1744 - Query word hapless

Dunciads on hapless Shadwells and Gibbers. This character, varying in
    Line 1744 - Query word Shadwells

Dunciads on hapless Shadwells and Gibbers. This character, varying in
    Line 1744 - Query word Gibbers

sagacity and bitterness, according to training and original talent,
    Line 1745 - Query word bitterness

native cheerfulness and the world's usage, is a necessity to
    Line 1746 - Query word native

native cheerfulness and the world's usage, is a necessity to
    Line 1746 - Query word cheerfulness

progress. No great reform is accomplished without his help. Whenever
    Line 1747 - Query word reform

progress. No great reform is accomplished without his help. Whenever
    Line 1747 - Query word accomplished

society moves slowly in its duty, he strikes the hindmost; and though
    Line 1748 - Query word hindmost

procession, he is apt to abandon the position of rear-guard to
    Line 1750 - Query word procession

another, who in turn finds it an inconvenient and dangerous post. But
    Line 1751 - Query word inconvenient

more refined talent than he. You have been taking lessons of Pope,
    Line 1753 - Query word refined

more refined talent than he. You have been taking lessons of Pope,
    Line 1753 - Query word lessons

more refined talent than he. You have been taking lessons of Pope,
    Line 1753 - Query word Pope

Juvenal and Swift."
    Line 1754 - Query word Juvenal

"Now, you are losing your art, Mr. Montcalm," said Manie. "First, you
    Line 1756 - Query word losing

ascribe to me the most delicate sensibility, and now you class me
    Line 1757 - Query word sensibility

with as vulgar a satirist as Swift. Do you think I would write the,
    Line 1758 - Query word vulgar

'Tale of a Tub'? I am glad that, if I have not the genius to compose
    Line 1759 - Query word 'Tale

'Tale of a Tub'? I am glad that, if I have not the genius to compose
    Line 1759 - Query word Tub

'Tale of a Tub'? I am glad that, if I have not the genius to compose
    Line 1759 - Query word compose

the Dunciad, neither have I the vindictive spirit which prompted it.
    Line 1760 - Query word Dunciad

the Dunciad, neither have I the vindictive spirit which prompted it.
    Line 1760 - Query word vindictive

the Dunciad, neither have I the vindictive spirit which prompted it.
    Line 1760 - Query word prompted

You should memorize your flattering statements, and then they would
    Line 1761 - Query word memorize

not conflict."
    Line 1762 - Query word conflict

"Now, I am hit sorely and wantonly," said Montcalm. "How often have I
    Line 1764 - Query word sorely

"Now, I am hit sorely and wantonly," said Montcalm. "How often have I
    Line 1764 - Query word wantonly

been proceeding carelessly, if not unwittingly, in error when I felt
    Line 1765 - Query word carelessly

been proceeding carelessly, if not unwittingly, in error when I felt
    Line 1765 - Query word unwittingly

a smarting, agonizing blow; and I knew that I had been struck by that
    Line 1766 - Query word smarting

a smarting, agonizing blow; and I knew that I had been struck by that
    Line 1766 - Query word agonizing

scourge of scourges, that whip of scorpions, the lash of the local
    Line 1767 - Query word scourge

scourge of scourges, that whip of scorpions, the lash of the local
    Line 1767 - Query word scourges

scourge of scourges, that whip of scorpions, the lash of the local
    Line 1767 - Query word scorpions

satirist. Then, I sometimes encased myself in the armor of reasoning
    Line 1768 - Query word armor

satirist. Then, I sometimes encased myself in the armor of reasoning
    Line 1768 - Query word reasoning

and excuse, and, confident in my protecting mail, took up my old line
    Line 1769 - Query word confident

and excuse, and, confident in my protecting mail, took up my old line
    Line 1769 - Query word protecting

behold, Ahab was smitten between the joints of the harness."
    Line 1771 - Query word behold

behold, Ahab was smitten between the joints of the harness."
    Line 1771 - Query word smitten

behold, Ahab was smitten between the joints of the harness."
    Line 1771 - Query word joints

behold, Ahab was smitten between the joints of the harness."
    Line 1771 - Query word harness

"If Ahab would avoid the fatal arrow," returned Manie, "he should
    Line 1773 - Query word arrow

shun the field of Ramoth Gilead, or, better still, he should not make
    Line 1774 - Query word shun

"Ahab did not enter into an offensive and defensive alliance with
    Line 1780 - Query word offensive

"Ahab did not enter into an offensive and defensive alliance with
    Line 1780 - Query word defensive

"Ahab did not enter into an offensive and defensive alliance with
    Line 1780 - Query word alliance

Syrian when he had him in his power. He who compromises with, or
    Line 1782 - Query word compromises

refuses to attack error, commits the sin of Ahab; and he will meet
    Line 1783 - Query word refuses

refuses to attack error, commits the sin of Ahab; and he will meet
    Line 1783 - Query word commits

his punishment as surely as did the son of Omri."
    Line 1784 - Query word Omri

"Then every man who temporizes with evil will meet a bloody death?"
    Line 1786 - Query word temporizes

"Then every man who temporizes with evil will meet a bloody death?"
    Line 1786 - Query word bloody

"You must not infer that," answered Manie. "As the sin differs in
    Line 1789 - Query word infer

"You must not infer that," answered Manie. "As the sin differs in
    Line 1789 - Query word differs

some respects from that of Ahab, so in all probability will the
    Line 1790 - Query word respects

some respects from that of Ahab, so in all probability will the
    Line 1790 - Query word probability

punishment. But he who permits the perpetration of an evil which he
    Line 1791 - Query word permits

punishment. But he who permits the perpetration of an evil which he
    Line 1791 - Query word perpetration

time or eternity, Ramoth Gilead must come."
    Line 1793 - Query word eternity

than his equal in argument, He determined now to abandon the contest,
    Line 1796 - Query word contest

her the flattering opinion of her own skill as a controversialist.
    Line 1798 - Query word controversialist

"Give Ahab a truce," he said. "The donation at Mr. Osborne's is next
    Line 1800 - Query word truce

for the evening. May wicked Ahab presume to ask you to ride in his
    Line 1803 - Query word presume

strode into the room, carrying his head and shoulders very erect.
    Line 1815 - Query word erect

"Good-evening, Mrs. Ratke," he said with a profound bow.
    Line 1817 - Query word profound

Archer in his youth had been taught that a married lady's proper
    Line 1819 - Query word taught

Archer in his youth had been taught that a married lady's proper
    Line 1819 - Query word lady's

title is Mrs.; and he had broadened this definition until he made it
    Line 1820 - Query word broadened

embrace every member of the sex, whether married or unmarried.
    Line 1821 - Query word embrace

embrace every member of the sex, whether married or unmarried.
    Line 1821 - Query word unmarried

sides of his coat wide apart with his hands, at the same time taking
    Line 1827 - Query word sides

sides of his coat wide apart with his hands, at the same time taking
    Line 1827 - Query word wide

care that the brass buttons should be conspicuous, "I don't pretend
    Line 1828 - Query word pretend

to be much of a singician, but folks used to say I could sing."
    Line 1829 - Query word singician

"Of course you can sing," persisted Nora. "Good singers do have to be
    Line 1831 - Query word singers

urged so. Fred can't sing bass, and Mr. Montcalm can't sing it, and
    Line 1832 - Query word bass

floor with his foot, bobbed his head from side to side, and without
    Line 1840 - Query word bobbed

any approach to a tune rumbled away with all his might.
    Line 1841 - Query word tune

any approach to a tune rumbled away with all his might.
    Line 1841 - Query word rumbled

Nora's enjoyment of the scene was well-nigh perfect. She clapped her
    Line 1843 - Query word clapped

hands, rolled over on the sofa and, but for Archer's monotonous
    Line 1844 - Query word sofa

Thus encouraged, Archer began to sing a narrative, most of which on
    Line 1856 - Query word narrative

account of its tedious length must be briefly told in prose.
    Line 1857 - Query word briefly

account of its tedious length must be briefly told in prose.
    Line 1857 - Query word prose

    "Come listen to the awful tale,
    Line 1859 - Query word tale

    That in song I shall bewail,
    Line 1860 - Query word bewail

    About a preacher's only son,
    Line 1861 - Query word preacher's

    And all for love he was undone.
    Line 1862 - Query word undone

repeated his proposals of marriage to the young lady.
    Line 1867 - Query word proposals

repeated his proposals of marriage to the young lady.
    Line 1867 - Query word marriage

Her affections blighted, the maiden pined steadily away, and an
    Line 1872 - Query word blighted

Her affections blighted, the maiden pined steadily away, and an
    Line 1872 - Query word pined

anxious friend made the following inquiry:
    Line 1873 - Query word inquiry

    "Madam, what makes you look so pale?
    Line 1875 - Query word pale

    Madam, what makes your colors fail?
    Line 1876 - Query word colors

    Your cheeks was once like roses red,
    Line 1877 - Query word cheeks

    Your cheeks was once like roses red,
    Line 1877 - Query word roses

    Your eyes was once as black as sloes.
    Line 1879 - Query word sloes

    Now to the grave methinks they goes."
    Line 1880 - Query word grave

    Now to the grave methinks they goes."
    Line 1880 - Query word methinks

On this solicitation the maiden, telling the story of her love,
    Line 1882 - Query word solicitation

imparted a warning to those who interfere with affairs of the heart,
    Line 1883 - Query word imparted

and at the close of the injunction gave a wail of agony and expired.
    Line 1884 - Query word injunction

and at the close of the injunction gave a wail of agony and expired.
    Line 1884 - Query word agony

and at the close of the injunction gave a wail of agony and expired.
    Line 1884 - Query word expired

The parents, stricken with grief at their loss, sent for the
    Line 1885 - Query word stricken

The parents, stricken with grief at their loss, sent for the
    Line 1885 - Query word grief

minister's son.
    Line 1886 - Query word minister's

    "Then to the funeral he did go,
    Line 1888 - Query word funeral

With a voice alternating between a roar and a yell, the singer told
    Line 1893 - Query word alternating

With a voice alternating between a roar and a yell, the singer told
    Line 1893 - Query word singer

the moral to the tragedy in forty lines, four of which are subjoined.
    Line 1894 - Query word tragedy

    For young folks parted sighs do heave.
    Line 1898 - Query word parted

    For young folks parted sighs do heave.
    Line 1898 - Query word sighs

    For young folks parted sighs do heave.
    Line 1898 - Query word heave

attempt to conceal her mirth while the clerk, as he thought, very
    Line 1902 - Query word conceal

properly seconded, with less effusiveness, her demonstrations of
    Line 1903 - Query word seconded

properly seconded, with less effusiveness, her demonstrations of
    Line 1903 - Query word effusiveness

properly seconded, with less effusiveness, her demonstrations of
    Line 1903 - Query word demonstrations

glee. "Oh! that's awful good, Mr. Archer. That's splendid. Oh! my!
    Line 1904 - Query word glee

"Yes, it's getting along towards bedtime," returned Archer, whose
    Line 1908 - Query word bedtime

perception, though dull, was still acute enough to show him that he
    Line 1909 - Query word perception

perception, though dull, was still acute enough to show him that he
    Line 1909 - Query word dull

was being made the butt of ridicule.
    Line 1910 - Query word butt

you, Nora. You have no right to hurt people's feelings in that way."
    Line 1913 - Query word people's

"Won't you do an errand for me?" she asked, accosting Archer, who had
    Line 1917 - Query word accosting

"Well?" answered the hired man gruffly.
    Line 1922 - Query word gruffly

intention to oblige her.
    Line 1927 - Query word oblige

"Well, yes," said Archer hesitatingly, "I'll tell him."
    Line 1933 - Query word hesitatingly

soon stood in the dining-room, embarrassed and expectant.
    Line 1937 - Query word expectant

"Yes, you can," said Nora, taking his sleeve and pulling him gently
    Line 1944 - Query word sleeve

the parlor bedrooms a chair, the rounds of which had been broken.
    Line 1952 - Query word rounds

Nora, quickly slipping into the bedroom, brought out the
    Line 1953 - Query word slipping

embarrassed to notice the maneuver. At the instant he sat down,
    Line 1955 - Query word maneuver

however, the spreading chair legs and descending cane bottom warned
    Line 1956 - Query word cane

him of the insecurity of his position and compelled him to bear most
    Line 1957 - Query word insecurity

"Won't you sing us a song, Mr. Wrengell?" said Nora with a giggle,
    Line 1960 - Query word giggle

"I do not care to sing," answered Wrengell, now comprehending her
    Line 1963 - Query word comprehending

motive in enticing him to the parlor.
    Line 1964 - Query word motive

motive in enticing him to the parlor.
    Line 1964 - Query word enticing

interspersing now and then a smothered laugh between the words,
    Line 1967 - Query word interspersing

interspersing now and then a smothered laugh between the words,
    Line 1967 - Query word smothered

On hearing this invitation Wrengell came to the conclusion that the
    Line 1973 - Query word invitation

company had entered into a conspiracy to make him appear ridiculous;
    Line 1974 - Query word conspiracy

and his embarrassment was quickly supplanted by anger.
    Line 1975 - Query word embarrassment

and his embarrassment was quickly supplanted by anger.
    Line 1975 - Query word supplanted

spread out its loose-jointed legs and squatted nearly to the floor,
    Line 1982 - Query word squatted

insulted was above and indifferent to their sneers. Gradually the
    Line 1987 - Query word indifferent

insulted was above and indifferent to their sneers. Gradually the
    Line 1987 - Query word sneers

notes decreased in volume and increased in rapidity, until the sounds
    Line 1988 - Query word decreased

notes decreased in volume and increased in rapidity, until the sounds
    Line 1988 - Query word rapidity

notes decreased in volume and increased in rapidity, until the sounds
    Line 1988 - Query word sounds

appeared almost to coalesce; yet not once did the fingers of the
    Line 1989 - Query word coalesce

player err in the selection of a key or appear to move more swiftly
    Line 1990 - Query word player

player err in the selection of a key or appear to move more swiftly
    Line 1990 - Query word err

player err in the selection of a key or appear to move more swiftly
    Line 1990 - Query word swiftly

the four auditors with astonishment.
    Line 1994 - Query word auditors

were to grin again at Wrengell's expense.
    Line 1998 - Query word grin

With exquisite modulation Wrengell changed the music from anger to
    Line 2000 - Query word exquisite

With exquisite modulation Wrengell changed the music from anger to
    Line 2000 - Query word modulation

solemnity and from solemnity to pathos; and he brought out with
    Line 2001 - Query word pathos

unusual distinctness that one superiority of instrumental over vocal
    Line 2002 - Query word distinctness

unusual distinctness that one superiority of instrumental over vocal
    Line 2002 - Query word vocal

circumscription of language.
    Line 2004 - Query word circumscription

A song beautiful in conception and glowing with power often fails to
    Line 2006 - Query word conception

A song beautiful in conception and glowing with power often fails to
    Line 2006 - Query word glowing

produce an impression, because he for whom it is rendered finds in it
    Line 2007 - Query word rendered

nothing which coincides with his sympathies or experience. But he who
    Line 2008 - Query word coincides

hears a well-played instrumental has no assurance that it was not
    Line 2009 - Query word played

hears a well-played instrumental has no assurance that it was not
    Line 2009 - Query word assurance

composed for the benefit of his special class. To the resigned
    Line 2010 - Query word resigned

sufferer the solemn largissimo may be a strain of patient
    Line 2011 - Query word sufferer

sufferer the solemn largissimo may be a strain of patient
    Line 2011 - Query word largissimo

resignation, while to the misanthrope it is the wail of hopeless
    Line 2012 - Query word resignation

resignation, while to the misanthrope it is the wail of hopeless
    Line 2012 - Query word misanthrope

resignation, while to the misanthrope it is the wail of hopeless
    Line 2012 - Query word hopeless

despair. The sparkling brillante, which animates one to heroic deeds
    Line 2013 - Query word sparkling

despair. The sparkling brillante, which animates one to heroic deeds
    Line 2013 - Query word brillante

despair. The sparkling brillante, which animates one to heroic deeds
    Line 2013 - Query word animates

despair. The sparkling brillante, which animates one to heroic deeds
    Line 2013 - Query word heroic

despair. The sparkling brillante, which animates one to heroic deeds
    Line 2013 - Query word deeds

and lofty aims, fills another with dreams of the revel and the
    Line 2014 - Query word aims

and lofty aims, fills another with dreams of the revel and the
    Line 2014 - Query word fills

and lofty aims, fills another with dreams of the revel and the
    Line 2014 - Query word dreams

and lofty aims, fills another with dreams of the revel and the
    Line 2014 - Query word revel

debauch.
    Line 2015 - Query word debauch

It was impossible to tell in what channel moved the reflections of
    Line 2017 - Query word channel

appreciating the skill of the musician. But whether they were
    Line 2019 - Query word appreciating

impelled to noble or to base purposes, they were moved, in no common
    Line 2020 - Query word impelled

impelled to noble or to base purposes, they were moved, in no common
    Line 2020 - Query word purposes

degree, by those finer variations, those nicer shades of expression
    Line 2021 - Query word variations

degree, by those finer variations, those nicer shades of expression
    Line 2021 - Query word nicer

degree, by those finer variations, those nicer shades of expression
    Line 2021 - Query word shades

correctness of movement.
    Line 2023 - Query word correctness

Wrengell rose from the organ with as much suddenness as he had
    Line 2025 - Query word suddenness

opinions, he left the parlor, casting back a look of contempt, which
    Line 2027 - Query word opinions

he meant to include every person in the room. Passing through the
    Line 2028 - Query word include

he meant to include every person in the room. Passing through the
    Line 2028 - Query word person

controversy, deliberate on the one side and furious on the other, he
    Line 2030 - Query word deliberate

controversy, deliberate on the one side and furious on the other, he
    Line 2030 - Query word furious

It was with dejection that Wrengell entered the chamber of the
    Line 2033 - Query word dejection

club-house and seated himself on the only unoccupied bed. The affront
    Line 2034 - Query word unoccupied

club-house and seated himself on the only unoccupied bed. The affront
    Line 2034 - Query word affront

first which he had been compelled to bear. From his infancy disgrace
    Line 2036 - Query word infancy

of his mother who was sent to the penitentiary, of his father who
    Line 2038 - Query word penitentiary

wandered to a distant state, there to be imprisoned for some offense
    Line 2039 - Query word distant

wandered to a distant state, there to be imprisoned for some offense
    Line 2039 - Query word imprisoned

wandered to a distant state, there to be imprisoned for some offense
    Line 2039 - Query word offense

the details of which were forgotten but the commission of which was
    Line 2040 - Query word commission

being frequently recalled. Taken from a poorhouse at an early age by
    Line 2041 - Query word frequently

being frequently recalled. Taken from a poorhouse at an early age by
    Line 2041 - Query word recalled

being frequently recalled. Taken from a poorhouse at an early age by
    Line 2041 - Query word poorhouse

being frequently recalled. Taken from a poorhouse at an early age by
    Line 2041 - Query word early

a farmer, who was ever reminding him of the charity, he strove
    Line 2042 - Query word reminding

a farmer, who was ever reminding him of the charity, he strove
    Line 2042 - Query word charity

manfully to repay the debt which, he fancied, he owed. He was given
    Line 2043 - Query word fancied

manfully to repay the debt which, he fancied, he owed. He was given
    Line 2043 - Query word owed

severe tasks to perform; and the story of his degradation was spread
    Line 2044 - Query word tasks

broadcast by the man with whom he lived, to such an extent that he
    Line 2045 - Query word broadcast

was publicly shunned.
    Line 2046 - Query word publicly

When he was unable to bear the exactions of his foster-father,
    Line 2048 - Query word exactions

When he was unable to bear the exactions of his foster-father,
    Line 2048 - Query word foster

Wrengell left the shelter of his roof and turned his attention to his
    Line 2049 - Query word roof

neglected education. Working between terms and studying nights, he
    Line 2050 - Query word neglected

neglected education. Working between terms and studying nights, he
    Line 2050 - Query word education

neglected education. Working between terms and studying nights, he
    Line 2050 - Query word studying

neglected education. Working between terms and studying nights, he
    Line 2050 - Query word nights

part of a thorough musical course.
    Line 2053 - Query word musical

And this boy, without wealth, with a lineage so mean that its very
    Line 2055 - Query word lineage

mention gave him shame, was proud, proud as they who openly ignored
    Line 2056 - Query word openly

mention gave him shame, was proud, proud as they who openly ignored
    Line 2056 - Query word ignored

acquaintanceship, but drew between him and them a barrier which, more
    Line 2058 - Query word acquaintanceship

acquaintanceship, but drew between him and them a barrier which, more
    Line 2058 - Query word barrier

felt than seen, prevented the relations of intimate friendship.
    Line 2059 - Query word prevented

felt than seen, prevented the relations of intimate friendship.
    Line 2059 - Query word relations

felt than seen, prevented the relations of intimate friendship.
    Line 2059 - Query word intimate

Slowly he drew off one shoe and bared his left foot. It was not a
    Line 2061 - Query word bared

the outer edge branched a sixth toe, which increased in size the
    Line 2063 - Query word outer

extremity of the limb and made a small protuberance appear on the
    Line 2064 - Query word protuberance

Wrengell looked down at the malformation with a feeling almost of
    Line 2067 - Query word malformation

hatred. How often in his childhood, when, before he was large enough
    Line 2068 - Query word hatred

hatred. How often in his childhood, when, before he was large enough
    Line 2068 - Query word childhood

to work, he went barefooted to school, had his companions pointed
    Line 2069 - Query word barefooted

to work, he went barefooted to school, had his companions pointed
    Line 2069 - Query word companions

sneeringly at his deformity. The drunken father, the depraved mother,
    Line 2070 - Query word sneeringly

the sixth toe he had considered component parts of his disgrace.
    Line 2071 - Query word component

the sixth toe he had considered component parts of his disgrace.
    Line 2071 - Query word parts

He had thought that, far from the associations of his youth, he might
    Line 2073 - Query word associations

escape the obloquy which had weighed him down. He believed that the
    Line 2074 - Query word obloquy

escape the obloquy which had weighed him down. He believed that the
    Line 2074 - Query word weighed

mark of shame was upon him, that it was visible to whomsoever he met,
    Line 2075 - Query word whomsoever

despised.
    Line 2077 - Query word despised

Archer had been by common consent relegated to the farther corner of
    Line 2079 - Query word consent

Archer had been by common consent relegated to the farther corner of
    Line 2079 - Query word relegated

the room, and was there snoring comfortably, and noisily. Wrengell,
    Line 2080 - Query word snoring

the room, and was there snoring comfortably, and noisily. Wrengell,
    Line 2080 - Query word noisily

knowing that no common circumstance would awaken the slumberer, went
    Line 2081 - Query word awaken

knowing that no common circumstance would awaken the slumberer, went
    Line 2081 - Query word slumberer

to his bedside, and, taking down his violin, which hung over his
    Line 2082 - Query word bedside

not a minute, when the loud talking on the ground floor ceased, and
    Line 2084 - Query word ceased

Wrengell had barely time to throw down the violin and get into bed
    Line 2088 - Query word throw

mightily."
    Line 2092 - Query word mightily

"'Stonishin'," remarked the Canadian, Thompson.
    Line 2094 - Query word Canadian

"Why, boys," exclaimed Daggett, as the sleeper exhaled a deeply
    Line 2096 - Query word sleeper

"Why, boys," exclaimed Daggett, as the sleeper exhaled a deeply
    Line 2096 - Query word exhaled

rumbling current of air, "he's asleep."
    Line 2097 - Query word rumbling

rumbling current of air, "he's asleep."
    Line 2097 - Query word current

pull, put tey can't no man vake up Vill Archer."
    Line 2106 - Query word Vill

Straws, snuff and pepper were applied to his nose, but their sole
    Line 2108 - Query word Straws

Straws, snuff and pepper were applied to his nose, but their sole
    Line 2108 - Query word snuff

Straws, snuff and pepper were applied to his nose, but their sole
    Line 2108 - Query word pepper

Straws, snuff and pepper were applied to his nose, but their sole
    Line 2108 - Query word nose

effect was to make him give uneasy sniffs and change his position.
    Line 2109 - Query word sniffs

getting the sleepy eyelids to unclose, "why don't you play like that
    Line 2112 - Query word eyelids

getting the sleepy eyelids to unclose, "why don't you play like that
    Line 2112 - Query word unclose

ground was relieved of its superabundant moisture so nearly that the
    Line 2120 - Query word superabundant

ground was relieved of its superabundant moisture so nearly that the
    Line 2120 - Query word moisture

roads were in fair condition for the passage of teams. Ratke's
    Line 2121 - Query word teams

barnyard, tracked up by the stock, was a lone quagmire, surrounded by
    Line 2122 - Query word tracked

barnyard, tracked up by the stock, was a lone quagmire, surrounded by
    Line 2122 - Query word lone

stretches of solid earth.
    Line 2123 - Query word stretches

of Mrs. Grippin, made a detour and reached the barns in time to help
    Line 2127 - Query word detour

him unhitch the horse.
    Line 2128 - Query word unhitch

"Here are your cigars," said Montcalm, extending a wooden box as
    Line 2130 - Query word wooden

that the company to which I belong would accept you as a member? I
    Line 2136 - Query word belong

not to disclose the information you receive. It is a mining company,"
    Line 2148 - Query word disclose

said Montcalm, when Ratke had signed the printed agreement, "and is
    Line 2149 - Query word printed

located in the province of Guerrero, Mexico. Two miners of Chicago
    Line 2150 - Query word province

located in the province of Guerrero, Mexico. Two miners of Chicago
    Line 2150 - Query word miners

got tired of prospecting out West and finally went southward. South
    Line 2151 - Query word prospecting

got tired of prospecting out West and finally went southward. South
    Line 2151 - Query word finally

excavations they came upon many curious relics, such as pottery,
    Line 2155 - Query word excavations

excavations they came upon many curious relics, such as pottery,
    Line 2155 - Query word relics

excavations they came upon many curious relics, such as pottery,
    Line 2155 - Query word pottery

weapons and bodily ornaments. They exhumed a skeleton seven feet in
    Line 2156 - Query word weapons

weapons and bodily ornaments. They exhumed a skeleton seven feet in
    Line 2156 - Query word exhumed

weapons and bodily ornaments. They exhumed a skeleton seven feet in
    Line 2156 - Query word skeleton

length, with silver bracelets on its arms and ornaments of the same
    Line 2157 - Query word bracelets

metal on its legs. The scientific men have disputed as to the date of
    Line 2158 - Query word scientific

metal on its legs. The scientific men have disputed as to the date of
    Line 2158 - Query word disputed

its interment. Professor McDowell claims it is the remains of an
    Line 2159 - Query word interment

its interment. Professor McDowell claims it is the remains of an
    Line 2159 - Query word claims

its interment. Professor McDowell claims it is the remains of an
    Line 2159 - Query word remains

Anahuac who lived previous to the union of that tribe with the
    Line 2160 - Query word Anahuac

Anahuac who lived previous to the union of that tribe with the
    Line 2160 - Query word union

Anahuac who lived previous to the union of that tribe with the
    Line 2160 - Query word tribe

Chicimecs, while Dr. Hartsuff is equally positive that it is a relic
    Line 2161 - Query word Chicimecs

Chicimecs, while Dr. Hartsuff is equally positive that it is a relic
    Line 2161 - Query word Hartsuff

Chicimecs, while Dr. Hartsuff is equally positive that it is a relic
    Line 2161 - Query word positive

Chicimecs, while Dr. Hartsuff is equally positive that it is a relic
    Line 2161 - Query word relic

of the ante-Toltec period. Professor McDowell is writing a work on
    Line 2162 - Query word ante

of the ante-Toltec period. Professor McDowell is writing a work on
    Line 2162 - Query word Toltec

of the ante-Toltec period. Professor McDowell is writing a work on
    Line 2162 - Query word writing

the ancient races, which he intends to publish as soon as the
    Line 2163 - Query word races

the ancient races, which he intends to publish as soon as the
    Line 2163 - Query word intends

the ancient races, which he intends to publish as soon as the
    Line 2163 - Query word publish

"We will discuss that some other time," replied the major, who was
    Line 2167 - Query word discuss

not particularly well posted on American aboriginal history, and who
    Line 2168 - Query word aboriginal

wished to consult his authorities before committing himself.
    Line 2169 - Query word committing

"Here is the letter which they wrote me," said Montcalm.
    Line 2171 - Query word wrote

"They seem like candid fellows," remarked the major, after perusing
    Line 2173 - Query word candid

"They seem like candid fellows," remarked the major, after perusing
    Line 2173 - Query word perusing

"'Major Ratke's reputation as a veteran of the Mexican war is such
    Line 2176 - Query word reputation

provided he sends us his application for membership as soon as the
    Line 2179 - Query word sends

are beginning to revere the veterans of the Mexican war. But they
    Line 2183 - Query word revere

are beginning to revere the veterans of the Mexican war. But they
    Line 2183 - Query word veterans

have picked up specific information about me. Are there any of my old
    Line 2184 - Query word specific

histories of your military exploits."
    Line 2188 - Query word histories

histories of your military exploits."
    Line 2188 - Query word military

histories of your military exploits."
    Line 2188 - Query word exploits

"No," said the major; "my name was mentioned in the newspapers which
    Line 2190 - Query word newspapers

characters are beyond reproach. They wish to keep the knowledge of
    Line 2195 - Query word characters

characters are beyond reproach. They wish to keep the knowledge of
    Line 2195 - Query word reproach

capital. That is sixty percent, yearly. Mr. Bruce, a friend of mine,
    Line 2198 - Query word percent

capital. That is sixty percent, yearly. Mr. Bruce, a friend of mine,
    Line 2198 - Query word yearly

capital. That is sixty percent, yearly. Mr. Bruce, a friend of mine,
    Line 2198 - Query word Bruce

"I like your company," said the major, "because of the men of culture
    Line 2201 - Query word culture

who are in it and who prop it with respectability. Where are you
    Line 2202 - Query word prop

that I might die where I had lived in the prime of manhood. Here I
    Line 2215 - Query word prime

that I might die where I had lived in the prime of manhood. Here I
    Line 2215 - Query word manhood

have planned and worked. In that tool-house have been generated those
    Line 2216 - Query word planned

have planned and worked. In that tool-house have been generated those
    Line 2216 - Query word generated

mental children, whose births have cost me the pangs of labor, whose
    Line 2217 - Query word births

mental children, whose births have cost me the pangs of labor, whose
    Line 2217 - Query word pangs

nurture and development have been my constant care, and which, I had
    Line 2218 - Query word nurture

hoped, would be the comfort of my declining years. If I am to be
    Line 2219 - Query word declining

driven from my home, it would be a solace to know that that building
    Line 2220 - Query word solace

will be pointed out as the one in which were cradled the creations of
    Line 2221 - Query word cradled

will be pointed out as the one in which were cradled the creations of
    Line 2221 - Query word creations

"Yes," responded Montcalm; "his creditor bound himself by a forfeit
    Line 2237 - Query word forfeit

now. Land would bring a very low price if it were put up at auction.
    Line 2245 - Query word auction

"I am paid for my time," answered Montcalm firmly, "and I must
    Line 2249 - Query word firmly

warming rays are most appreciated after a hard winter, beat down with
    Line 2258 - Query word warming

enjoying the delightful temperature of the place, glanced upward to
    Line 2260 - Query word enjoying

reflected downward to him. He located the angle of reflection formed
    Line 2262 - Query word downward

by that most pleasing ray which touched the back of his neck. It was
    Line 2263 - Query word ray

by that most pleasing ray which touched the back of his neck. It was
    Line 2263 - Query word touched

above and at the right of a protruding nail and under and to the left
    Line 2264 - Query word nail

of an oval knot. This done, he traced out the normal which with the
    Line 2265 - Query word knot

of an oval knot. This done, he traced out the normal which with the
    Line 2265 - Query word traced

perpendicular completed the plane of reflection. He estimated how far
    Line 2266 - Query word perpendicular

perpendicular completed the plane of reflection. He estimated how far
    Line 2266 - Query word plane

perpendicular completed the plane of reflection. He estimated how far
    Line 2266 - Query word estimated

away must be an object which interrupts the sun's rays, to produce a
    Line 2267 - Query word interrupts

away must be an object which interrupts the sun's rays, to produce a
    Line 2267 - Query word sun's

cold wave sixty seconds from the time of interruption.
    Line 2268 - Query word wave

cold wave sixty seconds from the time of interruption.
    Line 2268 - Query word interruption

transferring the hill to the quagmire. Some of them were laboring
    Line 2271 - Query word transferring

faithfully enough. There were, however, two notable exceptions.
    Line 2272 - Query word notable

faithfully enough. There were, however, two notable exceptions.
    Line 2272 - Query word exceptions

Wingscheut and Archer, on the sunny slope of the elevation, out of
    Line 2273 - Query word sunny

on the ground kicking up the dirt with their heels.
    Line 2275 - Query word kicking

heat rays of the sun, so that the mild climate of the hillside would
    Line 2278 - Query word mild

heat rays of the sun, so that the mild climate of the hillside would
    Line 2278 - Query word climate

heat rays of the sun, so that the mild climate of the hillside would
    Line 2278 - Query word hillside

be changed to the frigidity of winter. How he would enjoy watching
    Line 2279 - Query word frigidity

be changed to the frigidity of winter. How he would enjoy watching
    Line 2279 - Query word enjoy

them as the gradual decline in temperature came on. They would slap
    Line 2280 - Query word gradual

them as the gradual decline in temperature came on. They would slap
    Line 2280 - Query word slap

their hands and stamp with their feet and put off the hardship of
    Line 2281 - Query word stamp

their hands and stamp with their feet and put off the hardship of
    Line 2281 - Query word hardship

have to, get up and shovel or freeze. Then, when they were
    Line 2283 - Query word freeze

industriously at their work, he would remove the obstacle and let the
    Line 2284 - Query word industriously

industriously at their work, he would remove the obstacle and let the
    Line 2284 - Query word obstacle

a relapse of laziness and a consequent reapplication of the remedy,
    Line 2286 - Query word relapse

a relapse of laziness and a consequent reapplication of the remedy,
    Line 2286 - Query word laziness

a relapse of laziness and a consequent reapplication of the remedy,
    Line 2286 - Query word consequent

a relapse of laziness and a consequent reapplication of the remedy,
    Line 2286 - Query word reapplication

but they would soon learn that friction develops heat, that there was
    Line 2287 - Query word develops

a relation between the action of the shovel and the transmission of
    Line 2288 - Query word relation

a relation between the action of the shovel and the transmission of
    Line 2288 - Query word transmission

preoccupied major the object seemed to divide, the under and larger
    Line 2293 - Query word preoccupied

piece remaining stationary, while the upper portion fell off and
    Line 2294 - Query word stationary

from the hill and recognized Durgenson, a cattle-buyer and dealer in
    Line 2296 - Query word dealer

agricultural implements.
    Line 2297 - Query word agricultural

Durgenson also dealt occasionally in horses and sheep, and was well
    Line 2299 - Query word occasionally

liked in the community for his square dealing, his readiness to
    Line 2300 - Query word dealing

accommodate and his frank, jocular manner. The only thing which had
    Line 2301 - Query word frank

accommodate and his frank, jocular manner. The only thing which had
    Line 2301 - Query word jocular

ever blackened his good name in that region was his rumored
    Line 2302 - Query word blackened

ever blackened his good name in that region was his rumored
    Line 2302 - Query word region

ever blackened his good name in that region was his rumored
    Line 2302 - Query word rumored

connection with the Nijni Novgorod oat scheme, but he had
    Line 2303 - Query word connection

connection with the Nijni Novgorod oat scheme, but he had
    Line 2303 - Query word oat

of complicity in the fraud. He was a large, square-shouldered man
    Line 2305 - Query word complicity

of complicity in the fraud. He was a large, square-shouldered man
    Line 2305 - Query word fraud

of complicity in the fraud. He was a large, square-shouldered man
    Line 2305 - Query word shouldered

with a closely-trimmed, full beard which gave him an appearance
    Line 2306 - Query word trimmed

sterner at a distance than in close proximity.
    Line 2307 - Query word sterner

"How is everything, Major?" he said, with the heartiness which had
    Line 2309 - Query word heartiness

made him popular among the rural classes.
    Line 2310 - Query word classes

Ratke, resolved to reap some advantage from the intrusion on his
    Line 2312 - Query word reap

meditations, broached to the cattle-buyer the subject of a loan.
    Line 2313 - Query word broached

moneyed man in the county. They all talk as you do. It will be no
    Line 2320 - Query word moneyed

to, for I'm thinking I'll want to use my cash then. That wouldn't pay
    Line 2327 - Query word cash

for I cannot endure it to be gloated over by Green. I tell you,
    Line 2333 - Query word endure

for I cannot endure it to be gloated over by Green. I tell you,
    Line 2333 - Query word gloated

be ruined. I will pay you twenty per cent interest and secure you so
    Line 2335 - Query word ruined

have it four or five years. It depends altogether on whether I get in
    Line 2341 - Query word depends

a pinch or not. I shall have to draw up the papers to make it payable
    Line 2342 - Query word pinch

a pinch or not. I shall have to draw up the papers to make it payable
    Line 2342 - Query word payable

Sparks's to draw up the writings this afternoon."
    Line 2346 - Query word Sparks's

Sparks's to draw up the writings this afternoon."
    Line 2346 - Query word writings

As the major had no cattle of any description to sell, Durgenson took
    Line 2351 - Query word description

instrument which gave sections fourteen and twenty-three and the
    Line 2355 - Query word sections

north half of section eleven to Hiram B. Durgenson, his heirs and
    Line 2356 - Query word section

north half of section eleven to Hiram B. Durgenson, his heirs and
    Line 2356 - Query word Hiram

north half of section eleven to Hiram B. Durgenson, his heirs and
    Line 2356 - Query word heirs

assigns forever. The major's hand moved unwillingly as he took the
    Line 2357 - Query word assigns

assigns forever. The major's hand moved unwillingly as he took the
    Line 2357 - Query word unwillingly

pen. The word "forever" in capitals looked to him unnecessarily
    Line 2358 - Query word pen

pen. The word "forever" in capitals looked to him unnecessarily
    Line 2358 - Query word capitals

pen. The word "forever" in capitals looked to him unnecessarily
    Line 2358 - Query word unnecessarily

Barton hundred and sixty. But after the deeding away of the larger
    Line 2360 - Query word deeding

basket of cakes and pies in readiness for the donation, which was to
    Line 2366 - Query word basket

basket of cakes and pies in readiness for the donation, which was to
    Line 2366 - Query word cakes

basket of cakes and pies in readiness for the donation, which was to
    Line 2366 - Query word pies

Manie with her trouble, and that model of cousins had exercised her
    Line 2371 - Query word cousins

awkwardness she had mercilessly ridiculed not a week before sat side
    Line 2374 - Query word awkwardness

awkwardness she had mercilessly ridiculed not a week before sat side
    Line 2374 - Query word ridiculed

by side during the journey to Osborne's.
    Line 2375 - Query word journey

The major soon after his arrival at Osborne's met a reverse in his
    Line 2377 - Query word reverse

Largess, a nephew of his wife and the principal of the Sharptown
    Line 2379 - Query word nephew

Academy, who, according to the rural custom, was honored with the
    Line 2380 - Query word Academy

Academy, who, according to the rural custom, was honored with the
    Line 2380 - Query word honored

title of "Professor." Professor Largess was an atheist; and the pride
    Line 2381 - Query word atheist

of the Sparks' who were professed Christians, was raised more by the
    Line 2382 - Query word Christians

defeat, of their creed. The professor was a tall, lank, loose-jointed
    Line 2384 - Query word creed

which he had probably acquired in the school-room.
    Line 2387 - Query word acquired

As the major was considered the argumentative champion of Jefferson
    Line 2389 - Query word argumentative

township, upon him, in the absence of the minister, fell the task of
    Line 2390 - Query word minister

defending the Biblical account of creation. This task he strove
    Line 2391 - Query word defending

defending the Biblical account of creation. This task he strove
    Line 2391 - Query word Biblical

manfully to perform. But his efforts were unsuccessful. The professor
    Line 2392 - Query word unsuccessful

was well versed in those evolutionary theories which have sprung up
    Line 2393 - Query word versed

was well versed in those evolutionary theories which have sprung up
    Line 2393 - Query word sprung

in the last half century, and especially in such authors as Spencer
    Line 2394 - Query word Spencer

and Darwin, who, more than the direct advocates of infidelity, have
    Line 2395 - Query word Darwin

and Darwin, who, more than the direct advocates of infidelity, have
    Line 2395 - Query word advocates

and Darwin, who, more than the direct advocates of infidelity, have
    Line 2395 - Query word infidelity

sown the seeds of unbelief. The effect of this logic upon Ratke was
    Line 2396 - Query word seeds

sown the seeds of unbelief. The effect of this logic upon Ratke was
    Line 2396 - Query word unbelief

Pyrrhus' elephants into Italy; but, with the perseverance of that
    Line 2398 - Query word Pyrrhus

Pyrrhus' elephants into Italy; but, with the perseverance of that
    Line 2398 - Query word elephants

Pyrrhus' elephants into Italy; but, with the perseverance of that
    Line 2398 - Query word Italy

Pyrrhus' elephants into Italy; but, with the perseverance of that
    Line 2398 - Query word perseverance

stubborn people, he determined to bring confusion to the opposing
    Line 2399 - Query word stubborn

stubborn people, he determined to bring confusion to the opposing
    Line 2399 - Query word opposing

lines by the use of the enemy's own auxiliaries.
    Line 2400 - Query word enemy's

lines by the use of the enemy's own auxiliaries.
    Line 2400 - Query word auxiliaries

The call to supper gave him an interval of rest and an opportunity to
    Line 2402 - Query word interval

collect his scattered forces, just as the blows of his opponent were
    Line 2403 - Query word collect

driving him from his last redoubt. The major was a firm believer in
    Line 2404 - Query word driving

driving him from his last redoubt. The major was a firm believer in
    Line 2404 - Query word redoubt

driving him from his last redoubt. The major was a firm believer in
    Line 2404 - Query word believer

the benefit of an abstemious diet on brain labor. While he
    Line 2405 - Query word abstemious

the benefit of an abstemious diet on brain labor. While he
    Line 2405 - Query word diet

appreciated a good meal, he liked better a controversial triumph. He
    Line 2406 - Query word controversial

appreciated a good meal, he liked better a controversial triumph. He
    Line 2406 - Query word triumph

ate, therefore, very sparingly, keeping his mind on the discussion
    Line 2407 - Query word sparingly

and avoiding such food as is detrimental to clear thinking. Of all
    Line 2408 - Query word food

and avoiding such food as is detrimental to clear thinking. Of all
    Line 2408 - Query word detrimental

viands he was fondest of roast pig, and near him was a young porker
    Line 2409 - Query word viands

viands he was fondest of roast pig, and near him was a young porker
    Line 2409 - Query word fondest

viands he was fondest of roast pig, and near him was a young porker
    Line 2409 - Query word porker

prepared by a master hand, but he withdrew his gaze from the tempting
    Line 2410 - Query word withdrew

prepared by a master hand, but he withdrew his gaze from the tempting
    Line 2410 - Query word gaze

prepared by a master hand, but he withdrew his gaze from the tempting
    Line 2410 - Query word tempting

brown as he reflected that baked pork requires five hours to digest.
    Line 2411 - Query word pork

brown as he reflected that baked pork requires five hours to digest.
    Line 2411 - Query word digest

almost voraciously. The professor had taken two dishes of oysters,
    Line 2414 - Query word voraciously

almost voraciously. The professor had taken two dishes of oysters,
    Line 2414 - Query word oysters

besides pastry and other eatables, when Ratke passed toward him the
    Line 2415 - Query word pastry

besides pastry and other eatables, when Ratke passed toward him the
    Line 2415 - Query word eatables

platter holding the pig, which, leaving a liberal share of its
    Line 2416 - Query word holding

its original position. Whenever Largess's supply of meat was nearly
    Line 2418 - Query word Largess's

exhausted and his longing glances again wandered to the platter for
    Line 2419 - Query word exhausted

exhausted and his longing glances again wandered to the platter for
    Line 2419 - Query word longing

which he was ashamed to call, the obliging major, who was nibbling
    Line 2420 - Query word obliging

which he was ashamed to call, the obliging major, who was nibbling
    Line 2420 - Query word nibbling

with pretended relish at his first piece of bread, politely supplied
    Line 2421 - Query word politely

passed by Ratke barely in time for it to escape the clutches of a
    Line 2424 - Query word clutches

ravenous farmer at his right.
    Line 2425 - Query word ravenous

strictly according to the rules of honorable warfare, that it
    Line 2428 - Query word strictly

strictly according to the rules of honorable warfare, that it
    Line 2428 - Query word rules

somewhat resembled the ruse of the Central African who feeds the
    Line 2429 - Query word resembled

somewhat resembled the ruse of the Central African who feeds the
    Line 2429 - Query word ruse

somewhat resembled the ruse of the Central African who feeds the
    Line 2429 - Query word African

somewhat resembled the ruse of the Central African who feeds the
    Line 2429 - Query word feeds

hippopotamus pease, or that of the sons of Jacob who converted the
    Line 2430 - Query word hippopotamus

hippopotamus pease, or that of the sons of Jacob who converted the
    Line 2430 - Query word pease

hippopotamus pease, or that of the sons of Jacob who converted the
    Line 2430 - Query word Jacob

hippopotamus pease, or that of the sons of Jacob who converted the
    Line 2430 - Query word converted

Hivites to circumcision only to slay them before they had recovered
    Line 2431 - Query word Hivites

Hivites to circumcision only to slay them before they had recovered
    Line 2431 - Query word circumcision

Hivites to circumcision only to slay them before they had recovered
    Line 2431 - Query word slay

from the rite. Whatever his scruples, they did not deter him from
    Line 2432 - Query word rite

from the rite. Whatever his scruples, they did not deter him from
    Line 2432 - Query word scruples

from the rite. Whatever his scruples, they did not deter him from
    Line 2432 - Query word deter

who was picking his teeth and whose lank form actually seemed to have
    Line 2434 - Query word actually

grown rotund, he remarked, "So you claim that all growth springs
    Line 2435 - Query word rotund

primarily from intelligence?"
    Line 2436 - Query word primarily

"Assuredly," replied the professor.
    Line 2438 - Query word Assuredly

"That is the theory of the leading men of to-day, sir," answered
    Line 2443 - Query word theory

"That is not a debatable question," dryly commented the professor.
    Line 2449 - Query word debatable

"That is not a debatable question," dryly commented the professor.
    Line 2449 - Query word dryly

The major congratulated himself that the roast pig was taking effect.
    Line 2451 - Query word congratulated

"I am not partial to trivialities," angrily replied the professor.
    Line 2456 - Query word trivialities

"I am not partial to trivialities," angrily replied the professor.
    Line 2456 - Query word angrily

"But, since you wish an answer to every petty interrogation which you
    Line 2457 - Query word petty

"Conscious intelligence?" said Largess, uncertain whether to give a
    Line 2464 - Query word uncertain

negative or an affirmative answer. "Why do you ask?" Then, thinking
    Line 2465 - Query word negative

negative or an affirmative answer. "Why do you ask?" Then, thinking
    Line 2465 - Query word affirmative

the major's question a declaration and deciding that it was best to
    Line 2466 - Query word deciding

oppose it, he added, "No enlightened modern scientist ever saw fit to
    Line 2467 - Query word enlightened

oppose it, he added, "No enlightened modern scientist ever saw fit to
    Line 2467 - Query word modern

oppose it, he added, "No enlightened modern scientist ever saw fit to
    Line 2467 - Query word scientist

"No man of sense ever had the hardihood to dispute it," answered
    Line 2473 - Query word hardihood

"No man of sense ever had the hardihood to dispute it," answered
    Line 2473 - Query word dispute

"We will go back to protoplasm," said Largess. "The cause of
    Line 2499 - Query word protoplasm

primordial growth is intelligence."
    Line 2500 - Query word primordial

"You wish to ignore my question," returned Ratke. "I have correctly
    Line 2502 - Query word ignore

wood, a knife and a boy with little mechanical skill. A tree is
    Line 2504 - Query word mechanical

correct. You assert, firstly, that the creation of the complex
    Line 2508 - Query word assert

correct. You assert, firstly, that the creation of the complex
    Line 2508 - Query word firstly

simple. And secondly, that the creation of the complex requires the
    Line 2510 - Query word secondly

"Sir," said the professor, walking back and forth and resuming the
    Line 2514 - Query word resuming

you confine yourself to reason, I will answer you. You have no
    Line 2516 - Query word confine

authority from science to ascribe conscious intelligence to a tree.
    Line 2517 - Query word science

Time is a period of progress. When that tree falls, decays and its
    Line 2518 - Query word decays

substance is in the body of a man, then there will be associated with
    Line 2519 - Query word associated

it that intangible thing which is called mind."
    Line 2520 - Query word intangible

"If intelligence is the sole creator," replied Ratke, "and all growth
    Line 2522 - Query word creator

is self-creating, when you were an oak you might well be proud of
    Line 2523 - Query word creating

your intellect. Then you could measure out the exact quantity of each
    Line 2524 - Query word intellect

your intellect. Then you could measure out the exact quantity of each
    Line 2524 - Query word exact

ingredient necessary to your development, and, at the same time, tell
    Line 2525 - Query word ingredient

each rootlet what kind of nutriment it should contribute to the
    Line 2526 - Query word rootlet

each rootlet what kind of nutriment it should contribute to the
    Line 2526 - Query word nutriment

each rootlet what kind of nutriment it should contribute to the
    Line 2526 - Query word contribute

general supply. Had you in weighing let the balance slip a notch, you
    Line 2527 - Query word weighing

general supply. Had you in weighing let the balance slip a notch, you
    Line 2527 - Query word balance

general supply. Had you in weighing let the balance slip a notch, you
    Line 2527 - Query word notch

would have made an elm instead of an oak. Then you had knowledge and
    Line 2528 - Query word elm

ingenuity such as is possessed by no human chemist or inventor. Now,
    Line 2529 - Query word chemist

I doubt if you have ingenuity enough to make a good ferule. And yet
    Line 2530 - Query word ferule

are indebted for your entanglement not to me, but to yourself."
    Line 2532 - Query word indebted

are indebted for your entanglement not to me, but to yourself."
    Line 2532 - Query word entanglement

"Bertrand," said Mrs. Sparks, "come away. I wouldn't pay any
    Line 2534 - Query word Bertrand

"I will talk no longer with one so unreasonable," declared the
    Line 2537 - Query word unreasonable

of hats and overcoats.
    Line 2539 - Query word overcoats

Tell me. Does the creation of the complex require a higher order of
    Line 2543 - Query word require

"My batteries were too strong for him," commented the major as he was
    Line 2547 - Query word batteries

on his way home. "I completely demoralized him."
    Line 2548 - Query word demoralized

you're claiming you was the one that did it."
    Line 2551 - Query word claiming

While they were going along a level stretch of road, they were passed
    Line 2553 - Query word stretch

"Charge!" shouted Ratke.
    Line 2557 - Query word Charge

"James Ratke," shrieked Mrs. Grippin, "you don't deserve to have any
    Line 2563 - Query word shrieked

"Go on. Uncle James," cried Nora gleefully from the bottom of the
    Line 2566 - Query word gleefully

We're gaining on him."
    Line 2568 - Query word gaining

his horses excelled in another gait, steadied Taylor to a trot,
    Line 2571 - Query word excelled

his horses excelled in another gait, steadied Taylor to a trot,
    Line 2571 - Query word steadied

allowing the gray Bill to lope along by his side. The change in
    Line 2572 - Query word allowing

allowing the gray Bill to lope along by his side. The change in
    Line 2572 - Query word gray

allowing the gray Bill to lope along by his side. The change in
    Line 2572 - Query word lope

tactics cost him his success in the race, for Sparks, urging Madge T.
    Line 2573 - Query word urging

causeway where he could not be passed and racing was impossible.
    Line 2575 - Query word causeway

causeway where he could not be passed and racing was impossible.
    Line 2575 - Query word racing

"you act crazy. I never saw such a man. I've a good notion to say I
    Line 2581 - Query word crazy

"you act crazy. I never saw such a man. I've a good notion to say I
    Line 2581 - Query word notion

"Yes," retorted Mrs. Grippin contemptuously; "then you'd have dragged
    Line 2588 - Query word contemptuously

farm. The major had prosecuted with more than his usual vigor his
    Line 2596 - Query word prosecuted

various enterprises. He had improved his Jerusalem wagon. He had
    Line 2597 - Query word enterprises

in reducing the hill almost to a level with the quagmire, a task
    Line 2599 - Query word reducing

which, owing to his under-estimation of the number of grammes of
    Line 2600 - Query word owing

which, owing to his under-estimation of the number of grammes of
    Line 2600 - Query word estimation

which, owing to his under-estimation of the number of grammes of
    Line 2600 - Query word grammes

force required for the transfer, or to his overestimation of the
    Line 2601 - Query word overestimation

expected. Wingscheut, dissatisfied with the shoveling which he had
    Line 2603 - Query word dissatisfied

expected. Wingscheut, dissatisfied with the shoveling which he had
    Line 2603 - Query word shoveling

smaller wages and harder work.
    Line 2605 - Query word harder

thoughtful and gloomy, sat in his bedroom. The last month had not
    Line 2609 - Query word thoughtful

thoughtful and gloomy, sat in his bedroom. The last month had not
    Line 2609 - Query word gloomy

been one of satisfaction to him. He had been accustomed to have his
    Line 2610 - Query word accustomed

attentions sought after instead of seeking for an opportunity to
    Line 2611 - Query word attentions

attentions sought after instead of seeking for an opportunity to
    Line 2611 - Query word seeking

bestow them. Some social triumphs, it is true, had been his; but
    Line 2612 - Query word bestow

bestow them. Some social triumphs, it is true, had been his; but
    Line 2612 - Query word social

bestow them. Some social triumphs, it is true, had been his; but
    Line 2612 - Query word triumphs

Manie, whom of all women he most admired, had declined to accept his
    Line 2613 - Query word women

Manie, whom of all women he most admired, had declined to accept his
    Line 2613 - Query word admired

Manie, whom of all women he most admired, had declined to accept his
    Line 2613 - Query word declined

addresses, and had even hinted that his compliments savored more of
    Line 2614 - Query word addresses

addresses, and had even hinted that his compliments savored more of
    Line 2614 - Query word hinted

addresses, and had even hinted that his compliments savored more of
    Line 2614 - Query word savored

flattery than of sincerity.
    Line 2615 - Query word sincerity

Irresolutely the restless hired man rose and peered from his window.
    Line 2617 - Query word restless

Irresolutely the restless hired man rose and peered from his window.
    Line 2617 - Query word peered

The evergreens, almost touching the house, were moving slightly their
    Line 2618 - Query word touching

The evergreens, almost touching the house, were moving slightly their
    Line 2618 - Query word slightly

branches and emitting a subdued murmur which was scarcely audible.
    Line 2619 - Query word emitting

branches and emitting a subdued murmur which was scarcely audible.
    Line 2619 - Query word murmur

branches and emitting a subdued murmur which was scarcely audible.
    Line 2619 - Query word audible

Casting off his indecision, Montcalm began to unlock one of two
    Line 2621 - Query word unlock

trunks which were in the room. The trunk was well fastened, requiring
    Line 2622 - Query word requiring

him to press several springs and to turn a thin key before the lid
    Line 2623 - Query word lid

saws, iron or steel implements, and, most curious of all, four large
    Line 2628 - Query word saws

woolen pads, to which were attached hollow columns of leather
    Line 2629 - Query word columns

resembling bootlegs, and each of which, when placed upon the floor,
    Line 2630 - Query word resembling

resembling bootlegs, and each of which, when placed upon the floor,
    Line 2630 - Query word bootlegs

large sack, Montcalm opened the window and climbed stealthily to the
    Line 2634 - Query word stealthily

ground. From the shelter of the trees he scrutinized the road, which
    Line 2635 - Query word scrutinized

unobscured save by a few thin streaks of cloud, in a measure made up
    Line 2637 - Query word unobscured

unobscured save by a few thin streaks of cloud, in a measure made up
    Line 2637 - Query word streaks

sufficient to escape the observation of a possible passer-by and was
    Line 2640 - Query word passer

His approach was heralded by a suppressed growl, and Takum's yellow
    Line 2643 - Query word growl

dog, Lina, and two litters of pups, one about the size of large cats,
    Line 2644 - Query word litters

the other larger than their mother, came out to give him a canine
    Line 2645 - Query word canine

welcome. The elder dog with the younger progeny trotted back to the
    Line 2646 - Query word welcome

welcome. The elder dog with the younger progeny trotted back to the
    Line 2646 - Query word elder

welcome. The elder dog with the younger progeny trotted back to the
    Line 2646 - Query word trotted

nest under the house, but the larger pups capered about him as if
    Line 2647 - Query word nest

nest under the house, but the larger pups capered about him as if
    Line 2647 - Query word capered

The place had about it an air of thriftlessness, quite suggestive of
    Line 2650 - Query word suggestive

the character of its inhabitants. The fence which had bounded the
    Line 2651 - Query word inhabitants

yard had yielded to the demand for fuel, and in the place where a
    Line 2652 - Query word yielded

yard had yielded to the demand for fuel, and in the place where a
    Line 2652 - Query word fuel

wood-pile had once been there were left not chips enough to kindle a
    Line 2653 - Query word chips

wood-pile had once been there were left not chips enough to kindle a
    Line 2653 - Query word kindle

fire. A light streamed through a window, from which had been broken
    Line 2654 - Query word streamed

several panes of glass, whose places had been supplied by a board,
    Line 2655 - Query word panes

In the house, a female voice was charging Takum with a neglect to
    Line 2658 - Query word charging

provide wood, and from the loft came boyish complaints, which were
    Line 2659 - Query word loft

provide wood, and from the loft came boyish complaints, which were
    Line 2659 - Query word boyish

indistinguishable to Montcalm.
    Line 2660 - Query word indistinguishable

"Harv," growled Takum, "you quit your crowdin', or I'll be up there
    Line 2662 - Query word Harv

"Harv," growled Takum, "you quit your crowdin', or I'll be up there
    Line 2662 - Query word crowdin

d'rectly."
    Line 2663 - Query word d'rectly

Montcalm, going to the rear of some bushes, whither he was followed
    Line 2665 - Query word whither

by the pups, lifted one of them by the tail clear from the ground, an
    Line 2666 - Query word tail

act which elicited a doleful lament, and brought the mother snarling
    Line 2667 - Query word elicited

act which elicited a doleful lament, and brought the mother snarling
    Line 2667 - Query word lament

act which elicited a doleful lament, and brought the mother snarling
    Line 2667 - Query word snarling

to the assistance of her offspring.
    Line 2668 - Query word offspring

continued unabated.
    Line 2672 - Query word unabated

"And so there was," replied Montcalm. "This one was clever enough to
    Line 2678 - Query word clever

leveled hill. As, after crossing several other fields, they clambered
    Line 2695 - Query word leveled

leveled hill. As, after crossing several other fields, they clambered
    Line 2695 - Query word crossing

to help himself to mutton? I thought they was runnin' over by the
    Line 2700 - Query word mutton

to help himself to mutton? I thought they was runnin' over by the
    Line 2700 - Query word runnin

ain't so fat as Lyme Sparkses. His sheep is just a wad o' fat. But of
    Line 2702 - Query word wad

some o' the biggest, fattest Cochins you ever see. They grow quick,
    Line 2705 - Query word fattest

you know. Why, the meat 'ill almost sqush in your hands."
    Line 2706 - Query word sqush

some o' the genuine Pekin. We might as well kill two birds with one
    Line 2711 - Query word genuine

some o' the genuine Pekin. We might as well kill two birds with one
    Line 2711 - Query word Pekin

"I have no appetite for ducks," answered Montcalm. "Let us attend to
    Line 2714 - Query word appetite

"I s'pose nothin'll satisfy you but a goose," said Takum. "Widder
    Line 2717 - Query word nothin'll

"I s'pose nothin'll satisfy you but a goose," said Takum. "Widder
    Line 2717 - Query word goose

"I s'pose nothin'll satisfy you but a goose," said Takum. "Widder
    Line 2717 - Query word Widder

the plaguiest things to hook, though, you ever see. They'll get right
    Line 2719 - Query word plaguiest

on the doorstep an' gabble, gabble enough to wake the nations. But
    Line 2720 - Query word doorstep

The older pups, which, alone, had ventured to follow, were by a few
    Line 2734 - Query word older

The older pups, which, alone, had ventured to follow, were by a few
    Line 2734 - Query word ventured

clubs sent yelping back to the residence of Takum.
    Line 2735 - Query word yelping

the savage words with which it was coupled. So dreadful a threat,
    Line 2747 - Query word coupled

the savage words with which it was coupled. So dreadful a threat,
    Line 2747 - Query word dreadful

uttered in such a manner, he believed was not an idle one. He
    Line 2748 - Query word idle

"You are working in finely, Phleet," complimented Montcalm.
    Line 2755 - Query word finely

"You are working in finely, Phleet," complimented Montcalm.
    Line 2755 - Query word complimented

lowest of whispers, as much pleased at the compliment as was one of
    Line 2758 - Query word lowest

lowest of whispers, as much pleased at the compliment as was one of
    Line 2758 - Query word whispers

his dogs at his own fondling.
    Line 2759 - Query word fondling

"Ole Green and Mis' Green they sleep in the bedroom this way,"
    Line 2765 - Query word Mis

the fool, he sleeps upstairs. An' say, don't git mad if I talk too
    Line 2767 - Query word sleeps

lights, just to save oil, you know."
    Line 2769 - Query word lights

lights, just to save oil, you know."
    Line 2769 - Query word oil

to soothe Takum's wounded feelings. "I will be careful."
    Line 2772 - Query word soothe

Philetus, whose nerves had not recovered from the shock which they
    Line 2774 - Query word nerves

Philetus, whose nerves had not recovered from the shock which they
    Line 2774 - Query word shock

farmers, kept his horse-barn locked. Montcalm drew the steel bar from
    Line 2782 - Query word locked

the sack, inserted it in the staple, and at a few hearty wrenches
    Line 2783 - Query word staple

the sack, inserted it in the staple, and at a few hearty wrenches
    Line 2783 - Query word hearty

the sack, inserted it in the staple, and at a few hearty wrenches
    Line 2783 - Query word wrenches

twisted the fastening from its place.
    Line 2784 - Query word twisted

gratified. Montcalm took one of the strange-looking articles and
    Line 2788 - Query word gratified

stood in a farther stall; but the animal was high-spirited, and he
    Line 2790 - Query word spirited

was obliged to summon Takum to his assistance.
    Line 2791 - Query word summon

The efforts of both were required to encase the feet of the colt in
    Line 2793 - Query word encase

about trying to keep his feet from the clumsy coverings by which they
    Line 2795 - Query word clumsy

about trying to keep his feet from the clumsy coverings by which they
    Line 2795 - Query word coverings

were being cumbered.
    Line 2796 - Query word cumbered

Montcalm ordered Takum to stay close to the corn-crib, which was
    Line 2798 - Query word crib

between the barns and the house, while he made a second tour about
    Line 2799 - Query word tour

It was as Montcalm had predicted. The animal, when he comprehended
    Line 2806 - Query word comprehended

that the bulky articles were on his feet, shied from side to side and
    Line 2807 - Query word bulky

that the bulky articles were on his feet, shied from side to side and
    Line 2807 - Query word shied

came very near jamming Montcalm against the corner of a post. But the
    Line 2808 - Query word jamming

pads, soft as boxing-gloves, so muffled the sound that it could be
    Line 2809 - Query word boxing

pads, soft as boxing-gloves, so muffled the sound that it could be
    Line 2809 - Query word gloves

heard but a few rods; and when the horse trod the solid ground, his
    Line 2810 - Query word trod

uneasiness abated.
    Line 2811 - Query word uneasiness

uneasiness abated.
    Line 2811 - Query word abated

"No, I'd rather foot it," answered Philetus, suspecting that the colt
    Line 2816 - Query word suspecting

would not prove a docile beast of burden.
    Line 2817 - Query word docile

would not prove a docile beast of burden.
    Line 2817 - Query word burden

furiously forward, but subsided to a slower gait when he felt the
    Line 2820 - Query word subsided

grip of the master on his rein. Philetus, afraid to lag behind, raced
    Line 2821 - Query word grip

grip of the master on his rein. Philetus, afraid to lag behind, raced
    Line 2821 - Query word lag

after his superior at a pace which severely taxed his powers and led
    Line 2822 - Query word pace

after his superior at a pace which severely taxed his powers and led
    Line 2822 - Query word severely

after his superior at a pace which severely taxed his powers and led
    Line 2822 - Query word taxed

him to the conclusion that hereafter, should he be given the choice,
    Line 2823 - Query word hereafter

him to the conclusion that hereafter, should he be given the choice,
    Line 2823 - Query word choice

he would hazard a possible fall rather than accept the alternative of
    Line 2824 - Query word hazard

he would hazard a possible fall rather than accept the alternative of
    Line 2824 - Query word alternative

he was joined by his breathless subordinate. He led the colt through
    Line 2827 - Query word breathless

casualty should he remain on the animal's back.
    Line 2829 - Query word casualty

casualty should he remain on the animal's back.
    Line 2829 - Query word animal's

The direction which they were pursuing was southeasterly. Philetus
    Line 2837 - Query word southeasterly

was astonished to see Montcalm, a stranger in the neighborhood, lead
    Line 2838 - Query word astonished

the way through the woods with a facility which he, a practiced
    Line 2839 - Query word facility

raider of the vicinity, could not have equaled. Nor did his surprise
    Line 2840 - Query word equaled

abate when his companion, tying his horse to a sapling, brought from
    Line 2841 - Query word tying

too much intimidated to inquire, but which he believed to contain a
    Line 2843 - Query word inquire

too much intimidated to inquire, but which he believed to contain a
    Line 2843 - Query word contain

Philetus that he might ride; and that worthy, remembering the strain
    Line 2848 - Query word worthy

Philetus that he might ride; and that worthy, remembering the strain
    Line 2848 - Query word remembering

to which his legs were subjected in the lane, gladly accepted his
    Line 2849 - Query word gladly

Philetus had not far to practice his equestrianism. He passed through
    Line 2852 - Query word practice

Philetus had not far to practice his equestrianism. He passed through
    Line 2852 - Query word equestrianism

The large square house of Lyman Sparks, visible in the starlight,
    Line 2855 - Query word starlight

stood behind its partial screen of small pine-trees. It was evident
    Line 2856 - Query word screen

stood behind its partial screen of small pine-trees. It was evident
    Line 2856 - Query word evident

from the buildings that the farm was owned by one whose success had
    Line 2857 - Query word owned

been obtained by mastering the details of his profession. Not a stray
    Line 2858 - Query word mastering

board could be seen about the premises. Not a picket was loose in the
    Line 2859 - Query word picket

fence which enclosed the house. The barns were models of comfort to
    Line 2860 - Query word models

the stock and convenience to the farmer; and between them was a
    Line 2861 - Query word convenience

straw-stack symmetrically built and having a neatly rounded top.
    Line 2862 - Query word symmetrically

If you hear any disturbance, notify me at once."
    Line 2873 - Query word notify

Philetus was by the protection of a not unfamiliar retreat, for it
    Line 2875 - Query word unfamiliar

thieving--for the propensity had become an instinct--was stronger
    Line 2877 - Query word thieving

thieving--for the propensity had become an instinct--was stronger
    Line 2877 - Query word propensity

thieving--for the propensity had become an instinct--was stronger
    Line 2877 - Query word stronger

In a very short time he had one of Sparks' matchless Cochins stuffed
    Line 2879 - Query word matchless

inside his jacket. His intrusion aroused a cackling protest among the
    Line 2880 - Query word aroused

inside his jacket. His intrusion aroused a cackling protest among the
    Line 2880 - Query word cackling

fowls, and the dog, which had hitherto kept quiet, now ran out and
    Line 2881 - Query word fowls

added to the tumult. Philetus, alarmed at the result of his action,
    Line 2882 - Query word tumult

went hastily to Montcalm, and whispered, "That dog's out, and they
    Line 2883 - Query word dog's

Just then Sparks, clad in his under-garments, shouted from his back
    Line 2892 - Query word garments

porch, "Halt! Where be you a-goin' with my horse?"
    Line 2893 - Query word porch

depredators. The vender of "Great American Panacea," repulsed at
    Line 2900 - Query word repulsed

every house where he had asked for a night's lodging, had sought the
    Line 2901 - Query word lodging

The barking of the dog and the disturbance in the hen-house and in
    Line 2903 - Query word barking

of Sparks confirmed the indications from other sources. With the
    Line 2905 - Query word confirmed

of Sparks confirmed the indications from other sources. With the
    Line 2905 - Query word indications

of Sparks confirmed the indications from other sources. With the
    Line 2905 - Query word sources

conviction that the location was becoming dangerous, the peddler
    Line 2906 - Query word conviction

picked up his satchels and prepared to depart. He emerged from the
    Line 2907 - Query word depart

cavern in the side of the straw-stack at the same moment that
    Line 2908 - Query word cavern

Wingscheut, who had dilatorily followed Sparks and his boy, came
    Line 2909 - Query word dilatorily

from feeling the courage of which he was wont to boast. His employer
    Line 2913 - Query word boast

His valor returned with tenfold intensity as the peddler whirled,
    Line 2917 - Query word valor

His valor returned with tenfold intensity as the peddler whirled,
    Line 2917 - Query word tenfold

His valor returned with tenfold intensity as the peddler whirled,
    Line 2917 - Query word intensity

wild dash he caught him with his boasted hiplock and brought him
    Line 2919 - Query word dash

heavily to the ground, yelling at the top of his voice, "I'fe cot te
    Line 2920 - Query word yelling

Poor Panicky clutched the wrists of Wingscheut, whose intention was
    Line 2923 - Query word wrists

satchels, of his pockets, even the clothes he wore, to be placed,
    Line 2925 - Query word pockets

unhampered, four feet from his captor.
    Line 2926 - Query word unhampered

unhampered, four feet from his captor.
    Line 2926 - Query word captor

"Yes you haf stole a horse," affirmed Wingscheut, struggling to free
    Line 2932 - Query word haf

"Yes you haf stole a horse," affirmed Wingscheut, struggling to free
    Line 2932 - Query word struggling

"Yes you haf stole a horse," affirmed Wingscheut, struggling to free
    Line 2932 - Query word free

his hands, "te pest horse in te whole country. I'll cif you a face
    Line 2933 - Query word pest

his hands, "te pest horse in te whole country. I'll cif you a face
    Line 2933 - Query word cif

vat von't look coot in Suntay-school. Let co my hant, I tell you.
    Line 2934 - Query word von't

vat von't look coot in Suntay-school. Let co my hant, I tell you.
    Line 2934 - Query word Suntay

vat von't look coot in Suntay-school. Let co my hant, I tell you.
    Line 2934 - Query word hant

Can't you mint notting? Come kill te tam horse-tief," he added, as
    Line 2935 - Query word mint

the graveled drive and to the walnut-tree before he was passed by
    Line 2939 - Query word graveled

the barn. An embarrassing difficulty was now presented. The
    Line 2942 - Query word embarrassing

not be readily untied; and he had left his knife at home in a pocket
    Line 2944 - Query word readily

of his working clothes. Pulling and twisting, he managed to break the
    Line 2945 - Query word managed

limb and disengage the severed extremity from the halter-strap.
    Line 2946 - Query word disengage

It was at this juncture that he heard Wingscheut proclaiming that he
    Line 2948 - Query word juncture

It was at this juncture that he heard Wingscheut proclaiming that he
    Line 2948 - Query word proclaiming

case. He laid hold of a strong stick which had been used to knock
    Line 2953 - Query word knock

walnuts from the tree, before he decided on his course of action, but
    Line 2954 - Query word walnuts

all doubts as to the cause of the outcry were at an end when
    Line 2955 - Query word doubts

all doubts as to the cause of the outcry were at an end when
    Line 2955 - Query word outcry

Whatever were the faults of Montcalm, he was not the one to desert an
    Line 2958 - Query word faults

Whatever were the faults of Montcalm, he was not the one to desert an
    Line 2958 - Query word desert

ally. Assuring himself that his revolver was ready for use, he sprang
    Line 2959 - Query word Assuring

ally. Assuring himself that his revolver was ready for use, he sprang
    Line 2959 - Query word revolver

upon the back of the horse and dashed up the drive, through a gate
    Line 2960 - Query word dashed

The Sparkses, happening to look up in season, fled before what they
    Line 2964 - Query word happening

supposed to be a rescue of cavalry, effecting their retreat through a
    Line 2965 - Query word rescue

supposed to be a rescue of cavalry, effecting their retreat through a
    Line 2965 - Query word cavalry

supposed to be a rescue of cavalry, effecting their retreat through a
    Line 2965 - Query word effecting

second gate which led into the lane. Wingscheut, intent on pounding
    Line 2966 - Query word intent

Panicky and unwarned by the muffled hoofs of the horse, which made
    Line 2967 - Query word unwarned

Panicky and unwarned by the muffled hoofs of the horse, which made
    Line 2967 - Query word hoofs

but little noise, did not realize his danger until communication with
    Line 2968 - Query word communication

prospect of receiving the violence which he was anxious to mete out
    Line 2970 - Query word mete

to another, and he limped around the straw-stack with a speed which
    Line 2971 - Query word limped

to another, and he limped around the straw-stack with a speed which
    Line 2971 - Query word speed

was, for a man who had a crippled leg, almost phenomenal. His terror
    Line 2972 - Query word crippled

was, for a man who had a crippled leg, almost phenomenal. His terror
    Line 2972 - Query word phenomenal

several blows with his cudgel, when he exclaimed:
    Line 2974 - Query word cudgel

"Ton't kill a man vat ain't to plame! Warum schlagst du mich? Was
    Line 2976 - Query word plame

"Ton't kill a man vat ain't to plame! Warum schlagst du mich? Was
    Line 2976 - Query word Warum

"Ton't kill a man vat ain't to plame! Warum schlagst du mich? Was
    Line 2976 - Query word schlagst

"Ton't kill a man vat ain't to plame! Warum schlagst du mich? Was
    Line 2976 - Query word du

hab' ich gethan? I ain't tone notting! Te teffil, I ain't tone
    Line 2977 - Query word hab

hab' ich gethan? I ain't tone notting! Te teffil, I ain't tone
    Line 2977 - Query word ich

hab' ich gethan? I ain't tone notting! Te teffil, I ain't tone
    Line 2977 - Query word gethan

hab' ich gethan? I ain't tone notting! Te teffil, I ain't tone
    Line 2977 - Query word teffil

organize for pursuit, turned his horse by a considerable effort and
    Line 2981 - Query word organize

the locality, which had for him no pleasant recollections. "Here,"
    Line 2983 - Query word locality

the locality, which had for him no pleasant recollections. "Here,"
    Line 2983 - Query word recollections

and supposing him to be Philetus, "jump on quick and ride away."
    Line 2985 - Query word supposing

The marauder leaped on his horse, from which he had dismounted, and
    Line 2991 - Query word marauder

The marauder leaped on his horse, from which he had dismounted, and
    Line 2991 - Query word leaped

was instantly flying down the drive. His perplexity over the incident
    Line 2992 - Query word perplexity

appointed place.
    Line 2994 - Query word appointed

you. I heard 'em sayin' they'd got the horse-thief and they was
    Line 2997 - Query word sayin

a-goin' to kill 'im. This ain't hookin' chickens. We better be
    Line 2998 - Query word hookin

"Nary a body," said Takum. "Can't you touch up your horse, Mr.
    Line 3007 - Query word Nary

Montcalm? Caesar! how this mare pulls. I can't hold her. 'Twouldn't
    Line 3008 - Query word Caesar

Montcalm? Caesar! how this mare pulls. I can't hold her. 'Twouldn't
    Line 3008 - Query word mare

Montcalm? Caesar! how this mare pulls. I can't hold her. 'Twouldn't
    Line 3008 - Query word pulls

"I will try to keep so close to you that you can protect me,"
    Line 3011 - Query word protect

"That's just what I'll do," said Takum. "I'll stick closer'n a
    Line 3014 - Query word closer'n

of the road. "Let down the fence. Be careful," he cautioned, as Takum
    Line 3018 - Query word cautioned

The wood was here easy of access. It had been used as a picnic ground
    Line 3027 - Query word access

The wood was here easy of access. It had been used as a picnic ground
    Line 3027 - Query word picnic

and had been consequently cleared of underbrush. Most of the trees
    Line 3028 - Query word underbrush

were white oaks, the limbs of which, unadorned, save by newly
    Line 3029 - Query word unadorned

sprouted leaves, admitted the direct rays of the stars and the
    Line 3030 - Query word sprouted

diffused light of the rising moon, though that luminary was not yet
    Line 3031 - Query word diffused

diffused light of the rising moon, though that luminary was not yet
    Line 3031 - Query word luminary

closer together and covered with a more luxuriant growth of leaves.
    Line 3034 - Query word luxuriant

The boundary between the forest and the great swamp was formed by a
    Line 3035 - Query word boundary

strip of small ash and poplars, through which led, here and there, a
    Line 3036 - Query word ash

strip of small ash and poplars, through which led, here and there, a
    Line 3036 - Query word poplars

Ordering Takum to hold the horses, Montcalm went into the bushes and
    Line 3039 - Query word Ordering

soon reappeared with two pairs of high rubber boots.
    Line 3040 - Query word reappeared

soon reappeared with two pairs of high rubber boots.
    Line 3040 - Query word pairs

"Hello," exclaimed Takum, who was beginning to lose his apprehension
    Line 3042 - Query word Hello

"It is no bad thing to be good at guessing," said Montcalm. "Strip
    Line 3045 - Query word guessing

off your cowhides and put on a pair, for you will need them. After we
    Line 3046 - Query word cowhides

the edge reached nearly to the horses' bodies, but which grew shallow
    Line 3051 - Query word grew

Philetus was ordered to urge her from the rear. Sparks' trotter never
    Line 3055 - Query word urge

before experienced such a castigation as was administered to her by
    Line 3056 - Query word experienced

before experienced such a castigation as was administered to her by
    Line 3056 - Query word castigation

before experienced such a castigation as was administered to her by
    Line 3056 - Query word administered

the tamarack pole in the hands of the obedient Takum. Although the
    Line 3057 - Query word obedient

distance was not more than half a mile, and Philetus in wielding the
    Line 3058 - Query word wielding

pole spared neither the brute nor his own muscle, it was thirty
    Line 3059 - Query word brute

pole spared neither the brute nor his own muscle, it was thirty
    Line 3059 - Query word muscle

"Well," remarked Takum, wiping the sweat from his brow, "we can't git
    Line 3062 - Query word wiping

"Well," remarked Takum, wiping the sweat from his brow, "we can't git
    Line 3062 - Query word sweat

them from the ground, in which a sharpened point had been sticking.
    Line 3066 - Query word sticking

"I swan!" ejaculated the wondering Philetus, "somebody has cut them
    Line 3068 - Query word swan

from a narrow space which had been prepared for the speedy completion
    Line 3072 - Query word speedy

from a narrow space which had been prepared for the speedy completion
    Line 3072 - Query word completion

of a road. Many fallen and nearly decayed tamaracks, which had been
    Line 3073 - Query word decayed

left to give the way a natural appearance, were by Montcalm's command
    Line 3074 - Query word command

lifted aside carefully, that they might again be returned, unchanged,
    Line 3075 - Query word unchanged

were leaning, and that his feet often stepped on the small stumps,
    Line 3080 - Query word stumps

which were imperfectly hidden by ruffled moss. Montcalm depended for
    Line 3081 - Query word ruffled

which were imperfectly hidden by ruffled moss. Montcalm depended for
    Line 3081 - Query word depended

more than on the measures he had taken to provide for the closing of
    Line 3083 - Query word closing

confidence ill-founded. The huckleberries and tamaracks were so thick
    Line 3085 - Query word founded

than six feet. The mat of bushes, catching at clothes and striking
    Line 3087 - Query word mat

when they were bent back and released, were certain to occupy a
    Line 3088 - Query word released

when they were bent back and released, were certain to occupy a
    Line 3088 - Query word occupy

liberal share of the attention of possible wanderer, if, as was quite
    Line 3089 - Query word wanderer

curiosity, to flounder through the mire and water which surrounded
    Line 3091 - Query word flounder

road here became more winding, not only because those who cleared it
    Line 3096 - Query word winding

found it easier to pass around than to chop down a large trunk, but
    Line 3097 - Query word chop

because this method offered less danger of detection. Presently the
    Line 3098 - Query word detection

way became straighter and the trees smaller and more numerous, as at
    Line 3099 - Query word straighter

way became straighter and the trees smaller and more numerous, as at
    Line 3099 - Query word numerous

In a cleared spot of a few yards in area the plunderers halted. Ample
    Line 3102 - Query word yards

provision had been made for the accommodation of the horses. By the
    Line 3103 - Query word provision

border of the clearing were a bag of oats, some bedding and a large
    Line 3104 - Query word bag

border of the clearing were a bag of oats, some bedding and a large
    Line 3104 - Query word bedding

spirit of romanticism, he would have reveled in the scene before him.
    Line 3106 - Query word romanticism

spirit of romanticism, he would have reveled in the scene before him.
    Line 3106 - Query word reveled

But unappreciated, even unnoticed, was that combination of
    Line 3107 - Query word unappreciated

picturesqueness formed by the rising moon, the spoils of the foray,
    Line 3108 - Query word picturesqueness

picturesqueness formed by the rising moon, the spoils of the foray,
    Line 3108 - Query word spoils

picturesqueness formed by the rising moon, the spoils of the foray,
    Line 3108 - Query word foray

the steed which had been ridden in the expedition, the dark, resolute
    Line 3109 - Query word steed

the steed which had been ridden in the expedition, the dark, resolute
    Line 3109 - Query word ridden

the steed which had been ridden in the expedition, the dark, resolute
    Line 3109 - Query word expedition

the steed which had been ridden in the expedition, the dark, resolute
    Line 3109 - Query word resolute

face of the leader and the wall of marshy forest which screened him
    Line 3110 - Query word screened

carpeting--the leaves which had dropped the preceding fall; and over
    Line 3115 - Query word carpeting

it arched the tamaracks, which had put forth their peculiar pointed
    Line 3116 - Query word arched

foliage before the phlegmatic oaks of the upland had covered their
    Line 3117 - Query word foliage

foliage before the phlegmatic oaks of the upland had covered their
    Line 3117 - Query word phlegmatic

foliage before the phlegmatic oaks of the upland had covered their
    Line 3117 - Query word upland

naked branches after the lethargy of winter.
    Line 3118 - Query word naked

naked branches after the lethargy of winter.
    Line 3118 - Query word lethargy

belabored him, plunged ahead with such vehemence that Montcalm was
    Line 3122 - Query word belabored

horses were eating together in the opening. The work of replacing the
    Line 3124 - Query word replacing

sharpened stakes occupied some minutes. Montcalm insisted that the
    Line 3125 - Query word stakes

sharpened stakes occupied some minutes. Montcalm insisted that the
    Line 3125 - Query word insisted

arranged with care.
    Line 3127 - Query word arranged

More disagreeable than the task which they had completed was that of
    Line 3129 - Query word disagreeable

high as they were, sank beneath the surface, and the clothing of the
    Line 3131 - Query word sank

lower limbs was saturated with muddy water. In the border of the
    Line 3132 - Query word saturated

lower limbs was saturated with muddy water. In the border of the
    Line 3132 - Query word muddy

substituted for his drenched trousers a pair which he found in a
    Line 3134 - Query word drenched

clump of bushes, and which had been left evidently with a view to
    Line 3135 - Query word clump

meeting that exigency.
    Line 3136 - Query word exigency

"Ain't it about time we was makin' towards home, Mr. Montcalm?" asked
    Line 3138 - Query word makin

"Why, are you sick of foraging?" inquired Montcalm.
    Line 3141 - Query word foraging

got enough of it for just now, you know. My legs is about petered."
    Line 3144 - Query word petered

"That's about what I think," returned Takum. "Me an' you is hustlers,
    Line 3148 - Query word hustlers

thrown against a tree with such force that his jacket was unbuttoned
    Line 3152 - Query word unbuttoned

and the dead hen tumbled against a log with a thud.
    Line 3153 - Query word thud

any hurt, seein' I'knew the way in, to git this chicken."
    Line 3159 - Query word seein

any hurt, seein' I'knew the way in, to git this chicken."
    Line 3159 - Query word I'knew

"Was that when the dog barked?" asked Montcalm.
    Line 3161 - Query word barked

"No, just afore," acknowledged Takum. "You ain't mad, be you, Mr.
    Line 3163 - Query word acknowledged

accountin' to nobody for 'em?"
    Line 3172 - Query word accountin

them. I never work in a neighborhood long after I start a gang. You
    Line 3176 - Query word gang

and I have too long heads to wallow through swamps and risk our necks
    Line 3177 - Query word wallow

and I have too long heads to wallow through swamps and risk our necks
    Line 3177 - Query word necks

you can do the plannin'. I was to git ten dollars for what I done,
    Line 3182 - Query word plannin

an' I've been scart more'n ten dollars' worth, take it all around.
    Line 3183 - Query word more'n

"Oh, I wouldn't tell nobody," said Takum earnestly. "I've hooked more
    Line 3206 - Query word earnestly

"Oh, I wouldn't tell nobody," said Takum earnestly. "I've hooked more
    Line 3206 - Query word hooked

chickens'n anybody in this hull country, an' I never told anybody but
    Line 3207 - Query word chickens'n

Ratke's barns. In the shadow of the largest he paused and deliberated
    Line 3211 - Query word shadow

Ratke's barns. In the shadow of the largest he paused and deliberated
    Line 3211 - Query word deliberated

mysterious stranger whom he had rescued. Moreover, he had reason to
    Line 3215 - Query word mysterious

confidant than helper, especially after being impressed with the
    Line 3217 - Query word confidant

confidant than helper, especially after being impressed with the
    Line 3217 - Query word helper

certainty of punishment for the first breach of confidence.
    Line 3218 - Query word certainty

certainty of punishment for the first breach of confidence.
    Line 3218 - Query word breach

approval, though it could not be gained, no sacrifice would have been
    Line 3221 - Query word approval

encouragement, he would have averted the misfortunes which were
    Line 3223 - Query word averted

encouragement, he would have averted the misfortunes which were
    Line 3223 - Query word misfortunes

gathering about her and her relatives. He was tired of the life he
    Line 3224 - Query word relatives

was leading, with its trickery and deceit, its wronging of honest
    Line 3225 - Query word trickery

was leading, with its trickery and deceit, its wronging of honest
    Line 3225 - Query word wronging

the money which would enable him to live at peace with all mankind.
    Line 3227 - Query word enable

the money which would enable him to live at peace with all mankind.
    Line 3227 - Query word mankind

Strangely he felt the force of those words which that Sabbath night
    Line 3229 - Query word Strangely

Manie had spoken to him concerning Ahab and the Syrian. He had made
    Line 3230 - Query word spoken

the covenant with Ben-hadad, but his Ramoth Gilead had not yet come.
    Line 3231 - Query word covenant

And would it come? With that apprehension by which the guilty spirit
    Line 3232 - Query word guilty

alone is haunted, he looked about him. In the peaceful air,
    Line 3233 - Query word haunted

alone is haunted, he looked about him. In the peaceful air,
    Line 3233 - Query word peaceful

undisturbed by a sound harsher than the note of the whip-poor-will,
    Line 3234 - Query word undisturbed

undisturbed by a sound harsher than the note of the whip-poor-will,
    Line 3234 - Query word harsher

was no warning. The only foreign element in the quiet which reigned
    Line 3235 - Query word element

was no warning. The only foreign element in the quiet which reigned
    Line 3235 - Query word reigned

about the place was the turbulence which agitated the mind of one
    Line 3236 - Query word turbulence

about the place was the turbulence which agitated the mind of one
    Line 3236 - Query word agitated

marauders been used as landmarks or timepieces, had changed their
    Line 3240 - Query word marauders

marauders been used as landmarks or timepieces, had changed their
    Line 3240 - Query word landmarks

marauders been used as landmarks or timepieces, had changed their
    Line 3240 - Query word timepieces

places or disappeared. The Pleiades had descended to the westward.
    Line 3241 - Query word Pleiades

places or disappeared. The Pleiades had descended to the westward.
    Line 3241 - Query word descended

places or disappeared. The Pleiades had descended to the westward.
    Line 3241 - Query word westward

The great dipper had lowered its handle until it appeared to be a
    Line 3242 - Query word dipper

receptacle toward which were falling myriads of glittering drops.
    Line 3243 - Query word myriads

receptacle toward which were falling myriads of glittering drops.
    Line 3243 - Query word glittering

Toward morning the major was awakened by loud and repealed shouting.
    Line 3251 - Query word repealed

As passers-by had sometimes amused themselves by calling him up and
    Line 3252 - Query word passers

As passers-by had sometimes amused themselves by calling him up and
    Line 3252 - Query word amused

cracking jokes at his expense, he did not at first respond to the
    Line 3253 - Query word cracking

cracking jokes at his expense, he did not at first respond to the
    Line 3253 - Query word jokes

summons. But the continuance of the shouting argued the occurrence of
    Line 3254 - Query word continuance

summons. But the continuance of the shouting argued the occurrence of
    Line 3254 - Query word argued

something unusual, and, hastily dressing, he went to the dining-room
    Line 3255 - Query word dressing

obscured by the evergreens. Some of the troop carried guns, several
    Line 3260 - Query word obscured

obscured by the evergreens. Some of the troop carried guns, several
    Line 3260 - Query word troop

obscured by the evergreens. Some of the troop carried guns, several
    Line 3260 - Query word guns

bore pitchforks, not more than one or two appeared unarmed, and these
    Line 3261 - Query word pitchforks

bore pitchforks, not more than one or two appeared unarmed, and these
    Line 3261 - Query word unarmed

"We've got some inquiries to make here," said Green, riding through
    Line 3269 - Query word inquiries

"We've got some inquiries to make here," said Green, riding through
    Line 3269 - Query word riding

As soon as Ratke had left him, Montcalm sprang up, scaped together
    Line 3284 - Query word scaped

some patches of swamp muck which bad not been noticed by his
    Line 3285 - Query word muck

unobservant employer, and, wrapping them in a paper, threw them
    Line 3286 - Query word unobservant

unobservant employer, and, wrapping them in a paper, threw them
    Line 3286 - Query word wrapping

Stepping out of doors, he saw the thief-hunters, who were returning
    Line 3289 - Query word hunters

"Hurrah, boys!" called a young fellow in a white hat; "everybody get
    Line 3292 - Query word Hurrah

Montcalm ran to the horse-barn, unlocked it with the key which he had
    Line 3300 - Query word unlocked

obtained from Ratke, bridled the steeds and led them out before he
    Line 3301 - Query word bridled

was rejoined by his employer. After assisting the major to get on the
    Line 3302 - Query word assisting

the party, which they presently overtook.
    Line 3304 - Query word overtook

"There is no use in disturbing him," said the major. "He has not
    Line 3312 - Query word disturbing

administering several loud taps.
    Line 3316 - Query word administering

administering several loud taps.
    Line 3316 - Query word taps

"Who's there?" asked a female voice after the lapse of a few seconds.
    Line 3318 - Query word Who's

"Where is Phleet?" inquired Green, ignoring her question.
    Line 3320 - Query word ignoring

"He ain't to home," replied Mrs. Takum. "He's gone to his uncle's."
    Line 3322 - Query word uncle's

"There, Ratke," exclaimed Green triumphantly as he neared the road.
    Line 3324 - Query word triumphantly

red-whiskered man whose name was Holmes. "I shouldn't wonder at all
    Line 3329 - Query word whiskered

red-whiskered man whose name was Holmes. "I shouldn't wonder at all
    Line 3329 - Query word shouldn't

fall upon his subordinate, jumped to the ground and inquired, "What
    Line 3333 - Query word jumped

Rushing to the door of the house and giving it some kicks which
    Line 3338 - Query word kicks

threatened to tear it from its hinges, Montcalm shouted, "Phleet,
    Line 3339 - Query word hinges

"There," said the major, triumphing in his turn, "he was afraid to
    Line 3346 - Query word triumphing

The band, unanimously agreeing not to disturb Takum further,
    Line 3349 - Query word unanimously

The band, unanimously agreeing not to disturb Takum further,
    Line 3349 - Query word agreeing

The band, unanimously agreeing not to disturb Takum further,
    Line 3349 - Query word disturb

"Where have you been hunting?" asked Ratke.
    Line 3353 - Query word hunting

"We've been all along the road by Lyme's," answered Holmes. "We
    Line 3355 - Query word Lyme's

turned the corner east of his house and went up by Rob Eliot's, and
    Line 3356 - Query word Rob

turned the corner east of his house and went up by Rob Eliot's, and
    Line 3356 - Query word Eliot's

"The funniest thing of the whole bisness is that they didn't leave no
    Line 3360 - Query word funniest

happened to meet an old trapper, and he said, 'I'll go with you, but
    Line 3370 - Query word trapper

to a house not more than half a mile from the trapping ground. They
    Line 3373 - Query word trapping

"Had we not better divide our party?" asked Ratke. "Concentration of
    Line 3377 - Query word Concentration

power is necessary when we wish to apply a prodigious force at a
    Line 3378 - Query word apply

power is necessary when we wish to apply a prodigious force at a
    Line 3378 - Query word prodigious

providing for much agility and extension of movement."
    Line 3381 - Query word providing

"I can't make out how we can get around any livelier by dividin' up,"
    Line 3383 - Query word livelier

"I can't make out how we can get around any livelier by dividin' up,"
    Line 3383 - Query word dividin

can look over more ground by dividing our force, why we can stand a
    Line 3388 - Query word dividing

a-chargin' up my lane to beat all, an' they drove me an' my boy to
    Line 3394 - Query word chargin

"Yes," said Wingscheut, "tey come a-charchin' up. Put, provitin' I
    Line 3397 - Query word charchin

hat hat a coot man vith me, I coot a kilt efery tam horse-tief."
    Line 3398 - Query word efery

von of 'em he run. Unt, provitin' my short lec vass crowet out long
    Line 3403 - Query word lec

von of 'em he run. Unt, provitin' my short lec vass crowet out long
    Line 3403 - Query word crowet

like it vass started to crow, I coot a caught 'im. Put I catched te
    Line 3404 - Query word crow

it, you can ask Sparks. Ten tere vass four more, tey come a-ritin'
    Line 3406 - Query word ritin

up. Unt von of 'em he was a pic feller. He vass proat unt he vass
    Line 3407 - Query word proat

long, Unt he vass pic all ofer. Unt he hat plack viskers Come vay
    Line 3408 - Query word ofer

long, Unt he vass pic all ofer. Unt he hat plack viskers Come vay
    Line 3408 - Query word plack

long, Unt he vass pic all ofer. Unt he hat plack viskers Come vay
    Line 3408 - Query word vay

te viskers. Unt tey run teir horses pack, vippin' 'em like tey vass
    Line 3411 - Query word pack

te viskers. Unt tey run teir horses pack, vippin' 'em like tey vass
    Line 3411 - Query word vippin

no man vant to pe pehint. Provitin' I hat a hat somepoty vat coot a
    Line 3412 - Query word pehint

het 'em off, tey vass cone up horse-tiefs. Unt, if you vant to know
    Line 3413 - Query word het

het 'em off, tey vass cone up horse-tiefs. Unt, if you vant to know
    Line 3413 - Query word cone

"Vell," answered Wingscheut, "maype you ton't pelief it, put he vass
    Line 3418 - Query word maype

"Vell," answered Wingscheut, "maype you ton't pelief it, put he vass
    Line 3418 - Query word pelief

The German's statement was greeted with a laugh of derision which
    Line 3421 - Query word greeted

The German's statement was greeted with a laugh of derision which
    Line 3421 - Query word derision

silenced him for some minutes.
    Line 3422 - Query word silenced

Madge's mother was from Petoskey Chief, an' she could go in three
    Line 3434 - Query word Madge's

Madge's mother was from Petoskey Chief, an' she could go in three
    Line 3434 - Query word Petoskey

"Taylor has no blood as slow as three minutes," replied the major.
    Line 3437 - Query word slow

"Taylor's sire was Aleck, he by King Henry, he by Maurice A., he by
    Line 3438 - Query word sire

"Taylor's sire was Aleck, he by King Henry, he by Maurice A., he by
    Line 3438 - Query word Maurice

the Duke of Argyle. Taylor's dam was Matilda, sired by Cal, he by
    Line 3439 - Query word dam

the Duke of Argyle. Taylor's dam was Matilda, sired by Cal, he by
    Line 3439 - Query word sired

the Duke of Argyle. Taylor's dam was Matilda, sired by Cal, he by
    Line 3439 - Query word Cal

Marshal Ney, he by Royal John. Matilda went in 2:28 on Long Island,
    Line 3440 - Query word Marshal

Marshal Ney, he by Royal John. Matilda went in 2:28 on Long Island,
    Line 3440 - Query word Ney

Marshal Ney, he by Royal John. Matilda went in 2:28 on Long Island,
    Line 3440 - Query word Royal

Marshal Ney, he by Royal John. Matilda went in 2:28 on Long Island,
    Line 3440 - Query word Island

and every horseman knows that Aleck could distance Wellington."
    Line 3441 - Query word horseman

"The proof of the puddin' is in the eatin'," said Sparks. "Madge T.
    Line 3443 - Query word proof

"The proof of the puddin' is in the eatin'," said Sparks. "Madge T.
    Line 3443 - Query word puddin

"The proof of the puddin' is in the eatin'," said Sparks. "Madge T.
    Line 3443 - Query word eatin

"Taylor did break up," returned Ratke. "But when you regain
    Line 3451 - Query word regain

possession of Madge T., bring her over and I will try conclusions
    Line 3452 - Query word conclusions

dilapidated barn, beyond which was an unpainted frame-house.
    Line 3458 - Query word dilapidated

dilapidated barn, beyond which was an unpainted frame-house.
    Line 3458 - Query word unpainted

"Yes," was the answer. "They're hard customers. We better rout 'em
    Line 3462 - Query word customers

"Yes," was the answer. "They're hard customers. We better rout 'em
    Line 3462 - Query word rout

of Wallace and uttered with it many an unnecessary and insinuating
    Line 3466 - Query word unnecessary

of Wallace and uttered with it many an unnecessary and insinuating
    Line 3466 - Query word insinuating

remark. At last a window was raised, a head thrust out and Wallace
    Line 3467 - Query word thrust

In spite of their want of respect for the place and its occupants,
    Line 3470 - Query word occupants

the party hesitated to answer the gruff interrogation. But Green, who
    Line 3471 - Query word gruff

was unscrupulous in wounding the feelings of others, boldly replied,
    Line 3472 - Query word unscrupulous

of a snooze to hear some half-baked nuisance ask if I'm to home. I
    Line 3476 - Query word snooze

interview.
    Line 3481 - Query word interview

"Abed, where all honest men ought to be," returned Wallace. "Got any
    Line 3491 - Query word Abed

more questions to ask?"
    Line 3492 - Query word questions

A cord bedstead gave forth a dolorous groaning, and directly after
    Line 3498 - Query word dolorous

A cord bedstead gave forth a dolorous groaning, and directly after
    Line 3498 - Query word groaning

A cord bedstead gave forth a dolorous groaning, and directly after
    Line 3498 - Query word directly

"Now," said Wallace, "get out of here, or I'll let daylight through
    Line 3501 - Query word daylight

This injudicious threat brought a shower of stones, which several
    Line 3504 - Query word injudicious

This injudicious threat brought a shower of stones, which several
    Line 3504 - Query word stones

substantial citizens, including Ratke and Holmes, in vain strove to
    Line 3505 - Query word substantial

substantial citizens, including Ratke and Holmes, in vain strove to
    Line 3505 - Query word vain

prevent. Two windows were broken, a piece of one clapboard was split
    Line 3506 - Query word clapboard

prevent. Two windows were broken, a piece of one clapboard was split
    Line 3506 - Query word split

rocky bombardment. It was fortunate for Wallace, that some of the
    Line 3508 - Query word rocky

rocky bombardment. It was fortunate for Wallace, that some of the
    Line 3508 - Query word bombardment

rocky bombardment. It was fortunate for Wallace, that some of the
    Line 3508 - Query word fortunate

younger and more hot-headed of the party were at the barn looking at
    Line 3509 - Query word headed

his horses. They drew out an old buggy and rummaged through the empty
    Line 3510 - Query word rummaged

bay and stable. They even led out the horses to see if one of them
    Line 3511 - Query word bay

ribs and low hanging heads were convincing proofs of the no
    Line 3513 - Query word convincing

ribs and low hanging heads were convincing proofs of the no
    Line 3513 - Query word proofs

non-identities of the steeds.
    Line 3514 - Query word identities

retraced their steps across the swamp. "If we could only get our
    Line 3517 - Query word retraced

Percheron in the winter. "I'd like to see 'em hanging to an oak
    Line 3519 - Query word Percheron

"The proper way to punish misdemeanor," replied the major, "is to
    Line 3522 - Query word punish

execute sentence proceeding from a legally organized tribunal. The
    Line 3523 - Query word execute

execute sentence proceeding from a legally organized tribunal. The
    Line 3523 - Query word legally

execute sentence proceeding from a legally organized tribunal. The
    Line 3523 - Query word tribunal

decisions of men unaccustomed to jurisprudence and unrestrained by
    Line 3524 - Query word decisions

decisions of men unaccustomed to jurisprudence and unrestrained by
    Line 3524 - Query word jurisprudence

decisions of men unaccustomed to jurisprudence and unrestrained by
    Line 3524 - Query word unrestrained

the statutes are apt to be hasty. Your conduct toward Wallace
    Line 3525 - Query word statutes

the statutes are apt to be hasty. Your conduct toward Wallace
    Line 3525 - Query word hasty

illustrates my statement. You had not the slightest evidence against
    Line 3526 - Query word illustrates

illustrates my statement. You had not the slightest evidence against
    Line 3526 - Query word slightest

and when he replied to your insults, stoned his house and threatened
    Line 3528 - Query word insults

"There didn't any of it come amiss," was the response. "If he didn't
    Line 3531 - Query word amiss

"The greatest and most widespread danger to society," said the major,
    Line 3534 - Query word widespread

"is lawlessness. It is in the rural districts, in high places, among
    Line 3535 - Query word lawlessness

"is lawlessness. It is in the rural districts, in high places, among
    Line 3535 - Query word districts

the legislators themselves. Citizens whose general morals are
    Line 3536 - Query word legislators

the legislators themselves. Citizens whose general morals are
    Line 3536 - Query word morals

irreproachable, who read the Bible and strive to abide by its
    Line 3537 - Query word irreproachable

irreproachable, who read the Bible and strive to abide by its
    Line 3537 - Query word Bible

irreproachable, who read the Bible and strive to abide by its
    Line 3537 - Query word strive

irreproachable, who read the Bible and strive to abide by its
    Line 3537 - Query word abide

teachings, forget that they should remain subject to the powers that
    Line 3538 - Query word teachings

be. It matters not whether the act of disobedience be the spearing of
    Line 3539 - Query word disobedience

be. It matters not whether the act of disobedience be the spearing of
    Line 3539 - Query word spearing

a fish in May, the shooting of a quail out of season, or the illegal
    Line 3540 - Query word fish

a fish in May, the shooting of a quail out of season, or the illegal
    Line 3540 - Query word illegal

contempt of the law. The insubordination thus fostered, building upon
    Line 3542 - Query word insubordination

contempt of the law. The insubordination thus fostered, building upon
    Line 3542 - Query word fostered

precedents unintended as such by their authors, walks with mobs in
    Line 3543 - Query word precedents

precedents unintended as such by their authors, walks with mobs in
    Line 3543 - Query word unintended

precedents unintended as such by their authors, walks with mobs in
    Line 3543 - Query word mobs

cities, overthrows the virtue and very existence of states, and
    Line 3544 - Query word cities

cities, overthrows the virtue and very existence of states, and
    Line 3544 - Query word overthrows

cities, overthrows the virtue and very existence of states, and
    Line 3544 - Query word states

spreads panic and instability among the nations. We must not be rash
    Line 3545 - Query word spreads

they wouldn't do any more mischief."
    Line 3549 - Query word mischief

is attempted, I will defend them to the best of my ability."
    Line 3552 - Query word defend

admirer of Ratke's courage. "And I'm with you every time, Major.
    Line 3555 - Query word admirer

than a good sound drubbing."
    Line 3557 - Query word drubbing

"Gentlemen," began the major, "we have made as thorough a search as
    Line 3567 - Query word Gentlemen

organization. Random efforts will avail us nothing. In order to
    Line 3569 - Query word organization

organization. Random efforts will avail us nothing. In order to
    Line 3569 - Query word Random

organization. Random efforts will avail us nothing. In order to
    Line 3569 - Query word avail

recover the stolen property we must plan, and plans are quite certain
    Line 3570 - Query word recover

of failure when they are known to a strong and vigilant enemy. If the
    Line 3571 - Query word failure

of failure when they are known to a strong and vigilant enemy. If the
    Line 3571 - Query word enemy

measures we adopt are understood throughout the country, they will be
    Line 3572 - Query word adopt

revealed to the thieves. I think we ought to choose a committee of
    Line 3573 - Query word choose

making its deliberations secret or public, as it may deem proper."
    Line 3575 - Query word deem

just what we are going to do. I move that we have an executive
    Line 3578 - Query word executive

nap. You were disturbed of your rest. Come in the house and lie
    Line 3592 - Query word nap

"Thank you," replied Montcalm. "I slept well the forepart of the
    Line 3595 - Query word slept

"Thank you," replied Montcalm. "I slept well the forepart of the
    Line 3595 - Query word forepart

the gentler sex to suspect that you are so weak as to feel fatigue. I
    Line 3599 - Query word gentler

the gentler sex to suspect that you are so weak as to feel fatigue. I
    Line 3599 - Query word fatigue

The deliberations of the committee lasted several hours. Ratke
    Line 3606 - Query word lasted

and that, consequently, the roads surrounding that portion near which
    Line 3608 - Query word surrounding

roads, which had an extent of eight miles, was divided between the
    Line 3610 - Query word miles

systematically to guard the part apportioned him.
    Line 3612 - Query word systematically

systematically to guard the part apportioned him.
    Line 3612 - Query word apportioned

Montcalm cleverly secured the division extending eastward from
    Line 3614 - Query word cleverly

hands. Avoiding Sheppard and Wrengell, he secured the services of
    Line 3616 - Query word services

Daggett, Brown, Thompson, and that still more valuable acquisition,
    Line 3617 - Query word acquisition

Archer, whom he promised some blankets and cigars and instructed to
    Line 3618 - Query word instructed

Dr. Rorus' drugstore.
    Line 3623 - Query word drugstore

chronic inebriates. They were harmless as doves, but not wise as
    Line 3626 - Query word chronic

chronic inebriates. They were harmless as doves, but not wise as
    Line 3626 - Query word inebriates

chronic inebriates. They were harmless as doves, but not wise as
    Line 3626 - Query word doves

chronic inebriates. They were harmless as doves, but not wise as
    Line 3626 - Query word wise

serpents. They worked much of the time by the day, and money they
    Line 3627 - Query word serpents

valued solely as a means by which liquor was obtained. They accepted
    Line 3628 - Query word valued

valued solely as a means by which liquor was obtained. They accepted
    Line 3628 - Query word solely

the offer of the committee-man, because it necessitated no hard work
    Line 3629 - Query word necessitated

and because it promised better remuneration than common labor.
    Line 3630 - Query word remuneration

Montcalm knew that criticism would be made on his action in engaging
    Line 3632 - Query word criticism

Montcalm knew that criticism would be made on his action in engaging
    Line 3632 - Query word engaging

such inefficient sentinels, but he was in a desperate strait which
    Line 3633 - Query word strait

required the use of desperate expedients. It was possible for him in
    Line 3634 - Query word expedients

a measure to avert suspicion. In the presence of three listeners he
    Line 3635 - Query word avert

a measure to avert suspicion. In the presence of three listeners he
    Line 3635 - Query word listeners

refused their request to be supplied with whisky, saying that they
    Line 3636 - Query word request

must remain sober during the night. Moreover, he told them that, if
    Line 3637 - Query word sober

they took a drop of the beverage with them, he should secure other
    Line 3638 - Query word drop

At dusk he posted his guards. Commencing at the point where his
    Line 3641 - Query word dusk

At dusk he posted his guards. Commencing at the point where his
    Line 3641 - Query word Commencing

These were, as he afterward claimed, all the sentinels whom he could
    Line 3645 - Query word claimed

procure, Archer's position was near a creek, the laggard waters of
    Line 3646 - Query word procure

procure, Archer's position was near a creek, the laggard waters of
    Line 3646 - Query word waters

which were moving toward the first of a chain of lakes connected with
    Line 3647 - Query word lakes

the Huron River, Near him and leading toward the highway was an old
    Line 3648 - Query word Huron

road which had been used in the transportation of poles from the
    Line 3649 - Query word transportation

"Here," said Montcalm, drawing the blankets from some alder bushes
    Line 3652 - Query word alder

where they were concealed, "you will have a comfortable time."
    Line 3653 - Query word concealed

"I hope so," said Archer. "Planting corn is hard work when you drive
    Line 3655 - Query word Planting

two hours, you can go to the bridge and back. But do not let any one
    Line 3660 - Query word bridge

know that you are favoring your legs in the least."
    Line 3661 - Query word favoring

"So I did," said Montcalm, handing him a half-dozen of the desired
    Line 3667 - Query word handing

gifts, which had a superior flavor to which Archer was unaccustomed.
    Line 3668 - Query word gifts

gifts, which had a superior flavor to which Archer was unaccustomed.
    Line 3668 - Query word flavor

is, he's lazy. He'll never set the North River afire."
    Line 3672 - Query word afire

"Not very bumkum," answered the subordinate. "I was nigh scart to
    Line 3676 - Query word bumkum

lightin' won't wake him. He's too lazy to stand for a sign-post."
    Line 3691 - Query word lightin

I've been afraid o' my shadder."
    Line 3697 - Query word shadder

"Up past Wallace's," said Montcalm, taking two quart bottles from his
    Line 3699 - Query word past

"Yes," assented Philetus. "But what are you goin' to do with the
    Line 3706 - Query word assented

"I ain't had no hankerin' to since las' night," responded I Takum
    Line 3715 - Query word hankerin

gloomily. "Gosh all Friday! I wish I was out o' this. It seems to me
    Line 3716 - Query word gloomily

"You recollect that I often had to warn you about talking too much,"
    Line 3719 - Query word recollect

"Yes," answered Philetus, "they won't nobody hear a yip out o' me,
    Line 3723 - Query word yip

over the broken-down gate in front of the unattractive house, he
    Line 3730 - Query word unattractive

division. Old John was standing in an attitude of meditation by the
    Line 3735 - Query word attitude

fence, with his hands grasping the top rail and his body unsteadily
    Line 3736 - Query word grasping

fence, with his hands grasping the top rail and his body unsteadily
    Line 3736 - Query word rail

fence, with his hands grasping the top rail and his body unsteadily
    Line 3736 - Query word unsteadily

waving about. Unconscious that he was watched, he staggered to a jug
    Line 3737 - Query word waving

waving about. Unconscious that he was watched, he staggered to a jug
    Line 3737 - Query word staggered

waving about. Unconscious that he was watched, he staggered to a jug
    Line 3737 - Query word jug

and emptied a quart of liquid, a part into his throat, a greater
    Line 3738 - Query word emptied

portion down his shirt collar. With more volume than melody floated a
    Line 3739 - Query word shirt

portion down his shirt collar. With more volume than melody floated a
    Line 3739 - Query word melody

portion down his shirt collar. With more volume than melody floated a
    Line 3739 - Query word floated

The cord bedstead in the chamber groaned, and in a few minutes Ab
    Line 3748 - Query word groaned

"Count me in, too. Pa," said a large, rawboned, masculine looking
    Line 3754 - Query word rawboned

girl, whose freckled face pushed through the opening door of an
    Line 3755 - Query word freckled

adjoining bedroom.
    Line 3756 - Query word adjoining

be seen here, I might be accused of neglecting my duty."
    Line 3764 - Query word neglecting

"Here, you, Ab," exclaimed Julia, grabbing her brother by the
    Line 3766 - Query word grabbing

shoulders and jerking him backward from his chair, "run upstairs and
    Line 3767 - Query word jerking

peg. That girl's a trump," he said to Montcalm, as Julia disappeared
    Line 3771 - Query word girl's

peg. That girl's a trump," he said to Montcalm, as Julia disappeared
    Line 3771 - Query word trump

"Now, Ab," whispered Julia, meeting that individual in his descent
    Line 3776 - Query word descent

"I don't know nothin' about any cat's-paw," said Ab, aloud. "You
    Line 3780 - Query word aloud

"Hatefulness," replied Julia, giving him a push and running up the
    Line 3783 - Query word Hatefulness

Julia brought down the cat's-paw and lugged out the best quilt from
    Line 3786 - Query word lugged

suggestion looked about for something to fill the keyhole of the
    Line 3788 - Query word suggestion

suggestion looked about for something to fill the keyhole of the
    Line 3788 - Query word fill

back-door. Passing by carpet rags and old clothing, she went to her
    Line 3789 - Query word carpet

box of choicest finery, and from it selected a red ribbon which she
    Line 3790 - Query word choicest

box of choicest finery, and from it selected a red ribbon which she
    Line 3790 - Query word finery

down for her visitor's inspection.
    Line 3792 - Query word visitor's

down for her visitor's inspection.
    Line 3792 - Query word inspection

she said, smoothing the pendent strip of silk.
    Line 3795 - Query word smoothing

she said, smoothing the pendent strip of silk.
    Line 3795 - Query word pendent

she said, smoothing the pendent strip of silk.
    Line 3795 - Query word silk

"They was rough on us last night," said Wallace, shuffling the cards
    Line 3797 - Query word shuffling

"They was rough on us last night," said Wallace, shuffling the cards
    Line 3797 - Query word cards

with dexterity. "It beat all how they tore around. They marked the
    Line 3798 - Query word dexterity

with dexterity. "It beat all how they tore around. They marked the
    Line 3798 - Query word tore

buggy out. They hit one of the wheels against something and cracked
    Line 3800 - Query word cracked

two of the spokes, and maybe three. It's a good thing they went just
    Line 3801 - Query word spokes

as they did. If they hadn't, one of them would have got a lead pill."
    Line 3802 - Query word pill

"Ab," cried Julia, "quit looking over my hand, or your ears'Il catch
    Line 3804 - Query word ears'Il

a warmin'."
    Line 3805 - Query word warmin

the severity of his language did not imply. "That's a girl such as
    Line 3808 - Query word severity

you don't often see, Montcalm. She's helped Ab an' me a good deal.
    Line 3809 - Query word helped

She's worked out for almost every one. She understands about the
    Line 3810 - Query word understands

comes real handy."
    Line 3812 - Query word handy

worked got up to watch pa and Ab, I'd rattle things around in the
    Line 3815 - Query word rattle

house so they could hear. Clubs is trumps, Trace. Ab, you look out or
    Line 3816 - Query word trumps

you'll get your chops slapped."
    Line 3817 - Query word chops

you'll get your chops slapped."
    Line 3817 - Query word slapped

time I went on the raid over in Eaton I just got away with my life.
    Line 3823 - Query word raid

time I went on the raid over in Eaton I just got away with my life.
    Line 3823 - Query word Eaton

They caught the horse and just missed me. The first thing after I go
    Line 3824 - Query word missed

"This venture is likely to be more profitable," asserted Montcalm.
    Line 3828 - Query word likely

"I've earned it too," replied Wallace. "Hacking away at them
    Line 3831 - Query word Hacking

easier from barns than from the ground. I won't have my ribs smashed
    Line 3839 - Query word smashed

by plow-handles to raise provender for some bloated bondholder. The
    Line 3840 - Query word plow

by plow-handles to raise provender for some bloated bondholder. The
    Line 3840 - Query word handles

by plow-handles to raise provender for some bloated bondholder. The
    Line 3840 - Query word provender

by plow-handles to raise provender for some bloated bondholder. The
    Line 3840 - Query word bloated

by plow-handles to raise provender for some bloated bondholder. The
    Line 3840 - Query word bondholder

capitalists have got it all their own way, and they wouldn't give a
    Line 3841 - Query word capitalists

take five bushels of wheat from three or four bins, and it won't be
    Line 3844 - Query word bushels

take five bushels of wheat from three or four bins, and it won't be
    Line 3844 - Query word bins

noticed, but when you take a horse, there's an everlasting pow-wow."
    Line 3845 - Query word everlasting

noticed, but when you take a horse, there's an everlasting pow-wow."
    Line 3845 - Query word pow

noticed, but when you take a horse, there's an everlasting pow-wow."
    Line 3845 - Query word wow

"You can get your provisions that way," said Montcalm, "but you will
    Line 3847 - Query word provisions

"Yes, Pa," cried Julia. "And I want some dresses and rings, and you
    Line 3850 - Query word dresses

"Yes, Pa," cried Julia. "And I want some dresses and rings, and you
    Line 3850 - Query word rings

promised me a breastpin."
    Line 3851 - Query word breastpin

"Oh, yes, you want," grumbled Wallace--"you want a good deal, but you
    Line 3853 - Query word grumbled

cents a gallon--sixty cents."
    Line 3856 - Query word gallon

"Not yet," said Julia, "not till you play another game of euchre. Pa
    Line 3863 - Query word euchre

"No, you don't," cried the unfeminine Julia, making a spring toward
    Line 3873 - Query word unfeminine

"Smack him, Jule," said Wallace, and the daughter obeyed.
    Line 3876 - Query word Smack

flattery had brought him not the most pleasant results, writhed from
    Line 3879 - Query word results

flattery had brought him not the most pleasant results, writhed from
    Line 3879 - Query word writhed

her grasp and fled from the house.
    Line 3880 - Query word grasp

Montcalm, as he had expected, found Archer wrapped in the shelter of
    Line 3900 - Query word wrapped

some bushes, oblivious to hi surroundings. His visit to Takum
    Line 3901 - Query word oblivious

some bushes, oblivious to hi surroundings. His visit to Takum
    Line 3901 - Query word hi

some bushes, oblivious to hi surroundings. His visit to Takum
    Line 3901 - Query word surroundings

convinced him that he need have no fears concerning the faithfulness
    Line 3902 - Query word faithfulness

"There's some one a-gittin' ready to muckle us," said Philetus. "I
    Line 3910 - Query word muckle

His trip was far from satisfactory. There remained not one of the
    Line 3916 - Query word trip

His trip was far from satisfactory. There remained not one of the
    Line 3916 - Query word remained

hired men who had been stationed along the road. He refrained from
    Line 3917 - Query word stationed

relating his discovery to the Wallaces, who, he feared, might be
    Line 3918 - Query word relating

relating his discovery to the Wallaces, who, he feared, might be
    Line 3918 - Query word feared

They took an angling course toward the swamp. When they reached the
    Line 3926 - Query word angling

which had so surprised Philetus. This road was shorter than the one
    Line 3928 - Query word shorter

whose banks were overflowed. A distance below was a boat which
    Line 3931 - Query word banks

whose banks were overflowed. A distance below was a boat which
    Line 3931 - Query word overflowed

pushed once with the paddle, and they stopped on the opposite shore.
    Line 3933 - Query word paddle

Twenty minutes later and they were untying the stolen Billy and
    Line 3934 - Query word later

Twenty minutes later and they were untying the stolen Billy and
    Line 3934 - Query word untying

retreat for a common equine habitation, gave little trouble until
    Line 3938 - Query word equine

they came to the creek, where they snorted and stood with their feet
    Line 3939 - Query word snorted

braced, yielding only to the persuasion of some long whips.
    Line 3940 - Query word yielding

braced, yielding only to the persuasion of some long whips.
    Line 3940 - Query word persuasion

braced, yielding only to the persuasion of some long whips.
    Line 3940 - Query word whips

Wallace suggested that Ab should rearrange the newly cut path while
    Line 3943 - Query word rearrange

he and Montcalm attended to the stolen beasts, but the more prudent
    Line 3944 - Query word attended

he and Montcalm attended to the stolen beasts, but the more prudent
    Line 3944 - Query word beasts

he and Montcalm attended to the stolen beasts, but the more prudent
    Line 3944 - Query word prudent

superior would not consider the proposition. With his own hands he
    Line 3945 - Query word consider

replaced most of the trees and moved others which the Wallaces did
    Line 3946 - Query word replaced

plentifully along the route, not, he said, so much for the purpose of
    Line 3948 - Query word plentifully

covering the signs of travel as of inducing the searchers to keep
    Line 3949 - Query word covering

covering the signs of travel as of inducing the searchers to keep
    Line 3949 - Query word travel

covering the signs of travel as of inducing the searchers to keep
    Line 3949 - Query word inducing

away from the disguised road by going around the obstacles.
    Line 3950 - Query word disguised

away from the disguised road by going around the obstacles.
    Line 3950 - Query word obstacles

after leaving the tamaracks, he was tramping through the water, which
    Line 3953 - Query word tramping

reached above his boot tops. "This is fun. I suppose about to-morrow
    Line 3954 - Query word morrow

night the crowd'll come along and tear down my bam and burn my shanty
    Line 3955 - Query word crowd'll

night the crowd'll come along and tear down my bam and burn my shanty
    Line 3955 - Query word shanty

"We have no expectation of getting caught," replied Montcalm,
    Line 3958 - Query word expectation

expressing a confidence which he did not feel. "We had better go as
    Line 3959 - Query word expressing

silently as we can. Probably we and the guards are the only ones in
    Line 3960 - Query word silently

the neighborhood who are astir, but it is best to use caution."
    Line 3961 - Query word astir

Had Montcalm acquainted the Wallaces with the facts communicated by
    Line 3963 - Query word facts

Had Montcalm acquainted the Wallaces with the facts communicated by
    Line 3963 - Query word communicated

selfishness would have allowed no consideration for him to endanger
    Line 3965 - Query word selfishness

selfishness would have allowed no consideration for him to endanger
    Line 3965 - Query word endanger

their safety or that of their property. For this reason he encouraged
    Line 3966 - Query word safety

them and quieted their fears, using tactics exactly opposite to those
    Line 3967 - Query word quieted

which he employed in the management of Philetus.
    Line 3968 - Query word employed

which he employed in the management of Philetus.
    Line 3968 - Query word management

"Ah," said Wallace, when they had arrived at his barn, "go in and get
    Line 3970 - Query word Ah

that crank on the girt."
    Line 3971 - Query word girt

laid down some straight, smoothly hewn rails, thus forming a tramway
    Line 3978 - Query word smoothly

laid down some straight, smoothly hewn rails, thus forming a tramway
    Line 3978 - Query word hewn

laid down some straight, smoothly hewn rails, thus forming a tramway
    Line 3978 - Query word tramway

dried marsh grass, he fastened an end of a short rope to either side
    Line 3980 - Query word dried

of a car which supported the stack. Then he joined the short ropes to
    Line 3981 - Query word car

of a car which supported the stack. Then he joined the short ropes to
    Line 3981 - Query word ropes

handle of this contrivance, when the stack trundled slowly forward
    Line 3984 - Query word contrivance

handle of this contrivance, when the stack trundled slowly forward
    Line 3984 - Query word trundled

The removal of the stack exposed to view a pit which had been dug
    Line 3990 - Query word removal

The removal of the stack exposed to view a pit which had been dug
    Line 3990 - Query word exposed

The removal of the stack exposed to view a pit which had been dug
    Line 3990 - Query word dug

excavation that, when the entrance of the cellar was covered by the
    Line 3992 - Query word excavation

"Thanks and compliments is cheap," answered Wallace. "I wish I had
    Line 4000 - Query word Thanks

The horses did not fancy entering the underground stable. The colt
    Line 4003 - Query word underground

of the whip, or as Wallace termed it, "the persuader."
    Line 4005 - Query word persuader

lever, as the ground ascended toward the post.
    Line 4008 - Query word ascended

seen by some prowlers."
    Line 4011 - Query word prowlers

Montcalm visited the drunken guards from Break o'Day. He shook them,
    Line 4013 - Query word shook

broke their bottles and jugs and complained bitterly of their
    Line 4014 - Query word bitterly

neglect. While he was still shaking and lecturing Martin, he heard a
    Line 4015 - Query word lecturing

Archer. With many misgivings he sped toward the spot from which the
    Line 4017 - Query word misgivings

disturbance issued. Justice was on his track. Takum's only guaranty
    Line 4018 - Query word guaranty

of trustworthiness was his fear; Wallace cared for self alone, and
    Line 4019 - Query word trustworthiness

of trustworthiness was his fear; Wallace cared for self alone, and
    Line 4019 - Query word cared

here was a new trouble, which he could barely locate, much less
    Line 4020 - Query word locate

define. In front of Wallace's barn he met Archer, who was much
    Line 4021 - Query word define

Wallaces of Archer's disclosure, and prepare, when necessity
    Line 4033 - Query word disclosure

demanded, to flee from the danger which menaced him.
    Line 4034 - Query word flee

demanded, to flee from the danger which menaced him.
    Line 4034 - Query word menaced

the swamp where they used to haul fence-posts through."
    Line 4040 - Query word haul

Montcalm, relieved, though perplexed, left Archer on his beat and
    Line 4042 - Query word perplexed

went to the station of Philetus, which was deserted. He called
    Line 4043 - Query word station

loudly, but two or three minutes elapsed before a faint response came
    Line 4044 - Query word elapsed

loudly, but two or three minutes elapsed before a faint response came
    Line 4044 - Query word faint

point were large and comparatively far apart, he found Takum, who was
    Line 4046 - Query word comparatively

they'll find us! We're gone up! Great Augustus! I'm a goin' to
    Line 4050 - Query word Augustus

Californy!"
    Line 4051 - Query word Californy

"We are all right," consoled Montcalm. "Did you not expect that I
    Line 4053 - Query word consoled

"We are all right," consoled Montcalm. "Did you not expect that I
    Line 4053 - Query word expect

hellaballoo an' run up this way. I didn't think you'd make such a
    Line 4059 - Query word hellaballoo

his attention was arrested by the sound of voices and laughter, and
    Line 4070 - Query word arrested

his attention was arrested by the sound of voices and laughter, and
    Line 4070 - Query word laughter

as he stopped, he overheard the words of Daggett, who was saying:
    Line 4071 - Query word overheard

"Didn't we have a time of it waking him, though? I poked him with a
    Line 4073 - Query word waking

"Didn't we have a time of it waking him, though? I poked him with a
    Line 4073 - Query word poked

pole two minutes before he give a grunt. But he flew around lively
    Line 4074 - Query word grunt

By nine o'clock in the forenoon a body of men and boys, to the number
    Line 4077 - Query word forenoon

of two hundred, had assembled at Ratke's. Carrying a variety of arms,
    Line 4078 - Query word assembled

of two hundred, had assembled at Ratke's. Carrying a variety of arms,
    Line 4078 - Query word variety

including, rifles, shotguns, revolvers, rusty swords and muskets with
    Line 4079 - Query word rifles

including, rifles, shotguns, revolvers, rusty swords and muskets with
    Line 4079 - Query word shotguns

including, rifles, shotguns, revolvers, rusty swords and muskets with
    Line 4079 - Query word rusty

including, rifles, shotguns, revolvers, rusty swords and muskets with
    Line 4079 - Query word swords

including, rifles, shotguns, revolvers, rusty swords and muskets with
    Line 4079 - Query word muskets

bayonets attached, they proceeded in a body to the swamp, where they
    Line 4080 - Query word bayonets

separated in order to facilitate their search.
    Line 4081 - Query word separated

separated in order to facilitate their search.
    Line 4081 - Query word facilitate

tamaracks. But their ardor, as well as their persons, was dampened by
    Line 4085 - Query word ardor

tamaracks. But their ardor, as well as their persons, was dampened by
    Line 4085 - Query word dampened

the water, which for the greater part of the year encircled the great
    Line 4086 - Query word encircled

an imperfect protection. The water poured over the boot-tops of the
    Line 4088 - Query word imperfect

men. The brush scratched the bare legs of the boys, who had rolled up
    Line 4089 - Query word scratched

their trousers. All were annoyed by the bushes, which in many places
    Line 4090 - Query word annoyed

were so thick that vision was limited to a distance of a few feet.
    Line 4091 - Query word limited

up-land, asserting that a horse would not venture where they had
    Line 4093 - Query word asserting

been, and that no one but old Ratke would have imagined the thing.
    Line 4094 - Query word imagined

With their zeal for the capture of the thieves considerably lessened,
    Line 4095 - Query word zeal

they returned to their homes, disgusted with their own folly in being
    Line 4096 - Query word homes

they returned to their homes, disgusted with their own folly in being
    Line 4096 - Query word folly

The author whose ambition is that of the rural historian will not
    Line 4108 - Query word ambition

The author whose ambition is that of the rural historian will not
    Line 4108 - Query word historian

attempt scientifically to analyze the causes which led to the
    Line 4109 - Query word scientifically

attempt scientifically to analyze the causes which led to the
    Line 4109 - Query word analyze

attempt scientifically to analyze the causes which led to the
    Line 4109 - Query word causes

circumstances herein to be described.
    Line 4110 - Query word herein

To the reader it may seem improbable, but certain it is that John
    Line 4112 - Query word reader

To the reader it may seem improbable, but certain it is that John
    Line 4112 - Query word improbable

the hunt after the horse-thieves, forgot those trifling incidents, of
    Line 4116 - Query word trifling

the hunt after the horse-thieves, forgot those trifling incidents, of
    Line 4116 - Query word incidents

Wrengell's manners and habits were undergoing a change, whether for
    Line 4121 - Query word habits

Wrengell's manners and habits were undergoing a change, whether for
    Line 4121 - Query word undergoing

the better is a question on which the student and the man of fashion
    Line 4122 - Query word student

the better is a question on which the student and the man of fashion
    Line 4122 - Query word fashion

would differ. He was entering the period which at some age is reached
    Line 4123 - Query word differ

by most men, the epoch of the anxiety to improve the personal
    Line 4124 - Query word epoch

by most men, the epoch of the anxiety to improve the personal
    Line 4124 - Query word anxiety

attractions. Had he possessed an opportunity he would have been
    Line 4125 - Query word attractions

tempted to barter a part of his hard-earned learning for a more
    Line 4126 - Query word tempted

tempted to barter a part of his hard-earned learning for a more
    Line 4126 - Query word barter

tempted to barter a part of his hard-earned learning for a more
    Line 4126 - Query word learning

perfect understanding of proprieties. At the church he saw Fred
    Line 4127 - Query word understanding

perfect understanding of proprieties. At the church he saw Fred
    Line 4127 - Query word proprieties

Loomis, and envied him his style. Dr. Rorus' clerk was not brilliant.
    Line 4128 - Query word envied

Loomis, and envied him his style. Dr. Rorus' clerk was not brilliant.
    Line 4128 - Query word style

Indeed, he seemed to be an automatic, imitative body, wound up for
    Line 4129 - Query word automatic

Indeed, he seemed to be an automatic, imitative body, wound up for
    Line 4129 - Query word imitative

life without the troublesome complication of a brain. His walk was
    Line 4130 - Query word troublesome

life without the troublesome complication of a brain. His walk was
    Line 4130 - Query word complication

unmistakably that of the young man who is assured of his gentility,
    Line 4131 - Query word unmistakably

unmistakably that of the young man who is assured of his gentility,
    Line 4131 - Query word gentility

and his hat was tipped at exactly the right angle to be fashionable.
    Line 4132 - Query word fashionable

extravagance, was praised by the clothier as a perfect fit. John did
    Line 4136 - Query word extravagance

extravagance, was praised by the clothier as a perfect fit. John did
    Line 4136 - Query word clothier

not mistrust that the trousers were too short, or that the loose coat
    Line 4137 - Query word mistrust

hung in wrinkles about his shoulders.
    Line 4138 - Query word wrinkles

The Sunday morning after the important purchase he took extraordinary
    Line 4140 - Query word extraordinary

pains with his attire. But the clothes brush was filled with the lint
    Line 4141 - Query word attire

pains with his attire. But the clothes brush was filled with the lint
    Line 4141 - Query word lint

of the club-house, and the blacking-brush, which had been used on
    Line 4142 - Query word blacking

greasy boots, would not impart to his shoes a perfect shine.
    Line 4143 - Query word greasy

greasy boots, would not impart to his shoes a perfect shine.
    Line 4143 - Query word shoes

greasy boots, would not impart to his shoes a perfect shine.
    Line 4143 - Query word shine

He was before the mirror, trying to smooth down an obstinate lock of
    Line 4145 - Query word smooth

"Fix it up nice, John. I would if I was in your place. If you go in
    Line 4148 - Query word Fix

the parlor now, you'll find her alone. She's singing, and all the
    Line 4149 - Query word singing

John determined to make a terrible rejoinder, but before he prepared
    Line 4152 - Query word rejoinder

it, he was assaulted by Brown and Thompson, and he was unable to
    Line 4153 - Query word assaulted

fence, he chewed splinters from the rails and waited for the
    Line 4157 - Query word chewed

fence, he chewed splinters from the rails and waited for the
    Line 4157 - Query word splinters

keen-eyed Daggett to turn his attention elsewhere, so that his
    Line 4158 - Query word keen

keen-eyed Daggett to turn his attention elsewhere, so that his
    Line 4158 - Query word eyed

keen-eyed Daggett to turn his attention elsewhere, so that his
    Line 4158 - Query word elsewhere

arrival in front of the house might not be seen by the fun-loving
    Line 4159 - Query word loving

hired man. When this occupation became monotonous, he slid from his
    Line 4160 - Query word slid

apple-trees. Leaves had pushed out, and buds had developed to
    Line 4164 - Query word buds

apple-trees. Leaves had pushed out, and buds had developed to
    Line 4164 - Query word developed

blossoms. Dressed in pink and white, the blossoms, stirred by a
    Line 4165 - Query word pink

blossoms. Dressed in pink and white, the blossoms, stirred by a
    Line 4165 - Query word stirred

strong wind, posed in different attitudes, and at each ample swing
    Line 4166 - Query word posed

strong wind, posed in different attitudes, and at each ample swing
    Line 4166 - Query word attitudes

cast off a portion of their loveliness. A few rods ahead of John was
    Line 4167 - Query word cast

cast off a portion of their loveliness. A few rods ahead of John was
    Line 4167 - Query word loveliness

as if in homage, were falling the dismembered blossoms. As the wind
    Line 4169 - Query word homage

as if in homage, were falling the dismembered blossoms. As the wind
    Line 4169 - Query word dismembered

shoulders, he thought it would be no misfortune, if he and she, like
    Line 4171 - Query word misfortune

Una and the red-cross knight, could be lost in a wood,
    Line 4172 - Query word Una

Una and the red-cross knight, could be lost in a wood,
    Line 4172 - Query word knight

    "Whose lofty trees, yclad with summer's pride, Did spread so
    Line 4174 - Query word yclad

    broad that Heaven's light did hide."
    Line 4175 - Query word Heaven's

obliged to raise herself on tiptoe and remain very close to him until
    Line 4184 - Query word herself

obliged to raise herself on tiptoe and remain very close to him until
    Line 4184 - Query word tiptoe

"I wanted these," said Manie, "because they are fresher than the
    Line 4187 - Query word fresher

What do you think of our apple grove, Mr. Wrengell?"
    Line 4189 - Query word grove

"I think it is a kingly court," replied John, "in which reigns an
    Line 4191 - Query word kingly

"I think it is a kingly court," replied John, "in which reigns an
    Line 4191 - Query word reigns

absolute monarch. The advent of summer holds perfect sway over our
    Line 4192 - Query word monarch

absolute monarch. The advent of summer holds perfect sway over our
    Line 4192 - Query word advent

absolute monarch. The advent of summer holds perfect sway over our
    Line 4192 - Query word sway

fancy. Of all periods the beginning of a progressive era is most
    Line 4193 - Query word periods

fancy. Of all periods the beginning of a progressive era is most
    Line 4193 - Query word progressive

fancy. Of all periods the beginning of a progressive era is most
    Line 4193 - Query word era

interesting. When a state or system has been established a
    Line 4194 - Query word interesting

interesting. When a state or system has been established a
    Line 4194 - Query word established

strongest admiration; but awakening life is never without its charms.
    Line 4196 - Query word charms

That line of woods is now in its richest beauty. There can be nothing
    Line 4197 - Query word richest

more picturesque than the spot where that dark green tree is set
    Line 4198 - Query word picturesque

diagonally in front of the less deeply tinted background. As its
    Line 4199 - Query word diagonally

diagonally in front of the less deeply tinted background. As its
    Line 4199 - Query word tinted

fellows advance to the same stage of development, the view will grow
    Line 4200 - Query word stage

less attractive. The reign of this scene around us over human
    Line 4201 - Query word reign

sympathies is transitory, for those white petals are now falling. In
    Line 4202 - Query word transitory

sympathies is transitory, for those white petals are now falling. In
    Line 4202 - Query word petals

a few days the trees will be clad in simple green, and in the autumn
    Line 4203 - Query word autumn

they must surrender their authority and yield tribute to those whom
    Line 4204 - Query word surrender

they must surrender their authority and yield tribute to those whom
    Line 4204 - Query word yield

they must surrender their authority and yield tribute to those whom
    Line 4204 - Query word tribute

they have ruled."
    Line 4205 - Query word ruled

Manie. "You may prefer blossoms to fruit, but Phleet Takum's little
    Line 4208 - Query word prefer

boys will not neglect yonder tree when it is loaded with yellow
    Line 4209 - Query word loaded

pippins. There are Seven of our hired men. Only one of them goes a
    Line 4210 - Query word pippins

come trooping over here as soon as they are assured that
    Line 4212 - Query word trooping

harvest-apples are ripe. How many of the farmers stay in their
    Line 4213 - Query word apples

harvest-apples are ripe. How many of the farmers stay in their
    Line 4213 - Query word ripe

orchards all day now? How many of them will keep away from them when
    Line 4214 - Query word orchards

it is time to gather fruit? You judge of an entire force by its
    Line 4215 - Query word judge

it is time to gather fruit? You judge of an entire force by its
    Line 4215 - Query word entire

application in one place. It has not the universality which you claim
    Line 4216 - Query word universality

John was in a dilemma. He believed that he ought to continue the
    Line 4219 - Query word dilemma

learned that in a nervous condition, such as he labored under at that
    Line 4221 - Query word labored

logic. Furthermore, he might, under the influence of excitement,
    Line 4223 - Query word Furthermore

utter some discourteous remark, which would nullify any good
    Line 4224 - Query word utter

utter some discourteous remark, which would nullify any good
    Line 4224 - Query word discourteous

utter some discourteous remark, which would nullify any good
    Line 4224 - Query word nullify

"No," exclaimed John in desperation, while a flush overspread his
    Line 4243 - Query word flush

"No," exclaimed John in desperation, while a flush overspread his
    Line 4243 - Query word overspread

receiving, but he had not mastered gallantry, and he was overwhelmed
    Line 4249 - Query word gallantry

receiving, but he had not mastered gallantry, and he was overwhelmed
    Line 4249 - Query word overwhelmed

with a sense of his inefficiency as an escort. That which he could
    Line 4250 - Query word inefficiency

not speak he could act. Regard drew him near her, and the fear of
    Line 4251 - Query word Regard

repulse drew him back, so that he walked in a zigzag line across the
    Line 4252 - Query word repulse

repulse drew him back, so that he walked in a zigzag line across the
    Line 4252 - Query word zigzag

coming to some bars, he threw down all of them but the bottom one,
    Line 4254 - Query word bars

which was caught at the end. He was tugging away at the unyielding
    Line 4255 - Query word unyielding

board when Manie put an end to his strenuous efforts by stepping
    Line 4256 - Query word strenuous

not dream of the ridicule he was preparing for himself by his excited
    Line 4260 - Query word dream

The drive to church furnished him the keenest enjoyment he had ever
    Line 4263 - Query word keenest

known. He was the escort of the most cultured, the most esteemed lady
    Line 4264 - Query word cultured

known. He was the escort of the most cultured, the most esteemed lady
    Line 4264 - Query word esteemed

of that community. Samson-like, he was rending the bonds of his evil
    Line 4265 - Query word Samson

of that community. Samson-like, he was rending the bonds of his evil
    Line 4265 - Query word rending

of that community. Samson-like, he was rending the bonds of his evil
    Line 4265 - Query word bonds

fortune and bearing away the Gazan gate which shut him within the
    Line 4266 - Query word fortune

fortune and bearing away the Gazan gate which shut him within the
    Line 4266 - Query word Gazan

city of disrepute. From the pit of degradation he raised his head
    Line 4267 - Query word disrepute

and, indeed, he was too happy to talk. The wind placed invigorating
    Line 4270 - Query word invigorating

touches on his face, and the wood to the south, with its thin
    Line 4271 - Query word touches

light-colored drapery and its flank of dark tamaracks, sent to him an
    Line 4272 - Query word colored

light-colored drapery and its flank of dark tamaracks, sent to him an
    Line 4272 - Query word drapery

light-colored drapery and its flank of dark tamaracks, sent to him an
    Line 4272 - Query word flank

inspriation which found fellowship with his already awakened
    Line 4273 - Query word inspriation

inspriation which found fellowship with his already awakened
    Line 4273 - Query word fellowship

At the church he was unpleasantly reminded of his abstraction by the
    Line 4276 - Query word unpleasantly

At the church he was unpleasantly reminded of his abstraction by the
    Line 4276 - Query word reminded

discovery that he had driven too far from the platform for Manie
    Line 4277 - Query word platform

conveniently to alight. Wishing to atone for his lack of skill by a
    Line 4278 - Query word alight

knees; and it was only by very energetic and undignified scrambling
    Line 4281 - Query word knees

knees; and it was only by very energetic and undignified scrambling
    Line 4281 - Query word energetic

knees; and it was only by very energetic and undignified scrambling
    Line 4281 - Query word undignified

knees; and it was only by very energetic and undignified scrambling
    Line 4281 - Query word scrambling

steps contented themselves by exchanging a few knowing looks. When,
    Line 4283 - Query word contented

steps contented themselves by exchanging a few knowing looks. When,
    Line 4283 - Query word exchanging

however, John had hitched his horse and awkwardly passed into the
    Line 4284 - Query word awkwardly

church, they commented freely on his behavior.
    Line 4285 - Query word freely

church, they commented freely on his behavior.
    Line 4285 - Query word behavior

After this Sunday Ratke's favor toward Wrengell began to wane and
    Line 4287 - Query word wane

Mrs. Grippin's began to increase. She admitted that John was a very
    Line 4288 - Query word increase

did not always wipe his hands in the center of the towel. He was,
    Line 4290 - Query word wipe

moreover, careful about disfiguring the butter-roll, and did not take
    Line 4291 - Query word disfiguring

moreover, careful about disfiguring the butter-roll, and did not take
    Line 4291 - Query word roll

It was the time of May-baskets, and parties hanging these souvenirs
    Line 4294 - Query word baskets

It was the time of May-baskets, and parties hanging these souvenirs
    Line 4294 - Query word parties

It was the time of May-baskets, and parties hanging these souvenirs
    Line 4294 - Query word souvenirs

John gathered some flowers from the swale which joined the swamp. He
    Line 4297 - Query word swale

attached to them some poetry, hung them on the knob of the front
    Line 4299 - Query word poetry

attached to them some poetry, hung them on the knob of the front
    Line 4299 - Query word knob

door, rapped and ran to the road. These were the stanzas which Manie
    Line 4300 - Query word rapped

door, rapped and ran to the road. These were the stanzas which Manie
    Line 4300 - Query word stanzas

    "We dwelt amid a marshy haunt,
    Line 4303 - Query word dwelt

    "We dwelt amid a marshy haunt,
    Line 4303 - Query word amid

    "We dwelt amid a marshy haunt,
    Line 4303 - Query word haunt

        Where youthful oaks and elms bend low,
    Line 4304 - Query word youthful

        Where youthful oaks and elms bend low,
    Line 4304 - Query word elms

        Where youthful oaks and elms bend low,
    Line 4304 - Query word bend

    Where shade meets sun, where breezes pant,
    Line 4305 - Query word shade

    Where shade meets sun, where breezes pant,
    Line 4305 - Query word meets

    Where shade meets sun, where breezes pant,
    Line 4305 - Query word breezes

    Where shade meets sun, where breezes pant,
    Line 4305 - Query word pant

        Where plants their fellows' secret know,
    Line 4306 - Query word plants

        And laugh with joy and sympathize with woe.
    Line 4307 - Query word sympathize

        And laugh with joy and sympathize with woe.
    Line 4307 - Query word woe

    "Rude were the hands which bore us hence
    Line 4309 - Query word hence

        From that loved spot where we were born.
    Line 4310 - Query word loved

        From that loved spot where we were born.
    Line 4310 - Query word born

    The lofty tamarack laments,
    Line 4311 - Query word laments

        The grieving poplar quakes, forlorn,
    Line 4312 - Query word grieving

        The grieving poplar quakes, forlorn,
    Line 4312 - Query word poplar

        The grieving poplar quakes, forlorn,
    Line 4312 - Query word quakes

        The grieving poplar quakes, forlorn,
    Line 4312 - Query word forlorn

        The grass blade bows its head to weep at morn
    Line 4313 - Query word blade

        The grass blade bows its head to weep at morn
    Line 4313 - Query word bows

        The grass blade bows its head to weep at morn
    Line 4313 - Query word weep

        The grass blade bows its head to weep at morn
    Line 4313 - Query word morn

    "Death to the exiled flowers must steal.
    Line 4315 - Query word exiled

        Oh, let us not be spurned, but given
    Line 4316 - Query word spurned

    Cold water and this boon to feel,
    Line 4317 - Query word boon

        And on us falls the soothing rain of Heaven."
    Line 4319 - Query word soothing

        And on us falls the soothing rain of Heaven."
    Line 4319 - Query word Heaven

The summer was remarkably hot. July had arrived. The great swamp
    Line 4325 - Query word remarkably

which, except in August, was usually too wet for a well-clad traveler
    Line 4326 - Query word traveler

to pass through with dry feet, was almost ungirded of its water-belt.
    Line 4327 - Query word ungirded

preceding sentence should be amended by the addition that Mrs.
    Line 4330 - Query word amended

Grippin was actively flying about, while the major was conning a
    Line 4331 - Query word actively

Grippin was actively flying about, while the major was conning a
    Line 4331 - Query word conning

treatise of Lord Shaftesbury's.
    Line 4332 - Query word treatise

treatise of Lord Shaftesbury's.
    Line 4332 - Query word Lord

treatise of Lord Shaftesbury's.
    Line 4332 - Query word Shaftesbury's

tattle about it. You've got secret all to once, haven't you?"
    Line 4336 - Query word tattle

you'd hunted all over, and you didn't tell me any different till the
    Line 4343 - Query word hunted

"James Ratke," said Mrs. Grippin, breaking into tears, "I have slaved
    Line 4349 - Query word tears

"James Ratke," said Mrs. Grippin, breaking into tears, "I have slaved
    Line 4349 - Query word slaved

for you half life. I have looked to your interests when you were
    Line 4350 - Query word interests

careless of them. I have cooked for your hired men and scrubbed
    Line 4351 - Query word careless

careless of them. I have cooked for your hired men and scrubbed
    Line 4351 - Query word cooked

careless of them. I have cooked for your hired men and scrubbed
    Line 4351 - Query word scrubbed

floors till I have nearly broken myself down. Look at my hands, James
    Line 4352 - Query word floors

Ratke! They have been crooked doing your washing and mending. I never
    Line 4353 - Query word crooked

Ratke! They have been crooked doing your washing and mending. I never
    Line 4353 - Query word washing

Ratke! They have been crooked doing your washing and mending. I never
    Line 4353 - Query word mending

before I am turned out into the streets."
    Line 4357 - Query word streets

the major soothingly. "An honorable man holds the claim against it. I
    Line 4360 - Query word soothingly

did not mean to hurt your feelings, Maria, or to manifest a lack of
    Line 4361 - Query word manifest

confidence in you. I appreciate what you have done for me and I mean
    Line 4362 - Query word appreciate

It was seldom that Mrs. Grippin was absent from the farm. This rare
    Line 4366 - Query word absent

It was seldom that Mrs. Grippin was absent from the farm. This rare
    Line 4366 - Query word rare

occurrence was welcomed with rapture by more than one whom it
    Line 4367 - Query word welcomed

occurrence was welcomed with rapture by more than one whom it
    Line 4367 - Query word rapture

concerned. Archer was at liberty to help himself to bread and butter,
    Line 4368 - Query word concerned

pie without encountering a savage glance which destroyed their
    Line 4370 - Query word encountering

pie without encountering a savage glance which destroyed their
    Line 4370 - Query word glance

appetites. Nora sat by Montcalm and talked and laughed with him in a
    Line 4371 - Query word appetites

way which would have shocked her proper aunt had that lady been
    Line 4372 - Query word shocked

cool in here. Oh my! Isn't this a nice place? I'll shut the door,"
    Line 4376 - Query word cool

to his house," said Montcalm, "seeing that there are thieves about."
    Line 4384 - Query word seeing

robbed. He has the strongest locks on his house, a lock on every door
    Line 4388 - Query word robbed

house has a lock on every door. Generally some of them are bolted."
    Line 4392 - Query word bolted

"Oh, yes," said Nora, "that is the way with Uncle Si's. He fastens
    Line 4394 - Query word Si's

"Oh, yes," said Nora, "that is the way with Uncle Si's. He fastens
    Line 4394 - Query word fastens

the cellar door with a hook. I remember hooking that when I was a
    Line 4395 - Query word hooking

"You have forgotten," said Montcalm. "It lacks a trifle of being as
    Line 4399 - Query word lacks

"You have forgotten," said Montcalm. "It lacks a trifle of being as
    Line 4399 - Query word trifle

"I know by intuition," said Montcalm. "Second sight, perhaps you
    Line 4404 - Query word intuition

store started." So saying, Nora sat in his lap and gave his collar a
    Line 4414 - Query word lap

playful shake.
    Line 4415 - Query word playful

playful shake.
    Line 4415 - Query word shake

Montcalm looked down pityingly into her face. He had not at first
    Line 4417 - Query word pityingly

meant to win her affections. Feeling his power, he had determined to
    Line 4418 - Query word win

test it, and its exercise had made her his slave. The lies which he
    Line 4419 - Query word test

test it, and its exercise had made her his slave. The lies which he
    Line 4419 - Query word exercise

test it, and its exercise had made her his slave. The lies which he
    Line 4419 - Query word lies

satisfaction, but they had doubled the difficulty in disentangling
    Line 4421 - Query word disentangling

himself without giving her the pain which he dreaded to inflict.
    Line 4422 - Query word dreaded

himself without giving her the pain which he dreaded to inflict.
    Line 4422 - Query word inflict

"Why!" exclaimed Nora, a disappointed look creeping across her face,
    Line 4428 - Query word creeping

"Oh, yes," answered Montcalm, as he felt unable to use the candor
    Line 4431 - Query word candor

checks, Trace," she said, coming from her bedroom with some papers.
    Line 4438 - Query word checks

"They are for $500. Take them now. I won't want them. Aunt Emma gave
    Line 4439 - Query word Emma

like helping to get along."
    Line 4441 - Query word helping

"No, no," expostulated Montcalm, thoroughly despising his own deceit.
    Line 4443 - Query word despising

who has them, only I want to show you that I won't be a hindrance to
    Line 4447 - Query word hindrance

At the sound of the last word Nora's face lighted up, and she pressed
    Line 4454 - Query word pressed

"We must not be impatient," replied Montcalm. "It may be a year or
    Line 4461 - Query word impatient

two before I am ready to marry. If the delay interferes with your
    Line 4462 - Query word marry

two before I am ready to marry. If the delay interferes with your
    Line 4462 - Query word delay

two before I am ready to marry. If the delay interferes with your
    Line 4462 - Query word interferes

happiness, I will release you from your promise."
    Line 4463 - Query word happiness

happiness, I will release you from your promise."
    Line 4463 - Query word release

disappointment. "I was afraid you would be. But I won't beg for your
    Line 4466 - Query word beg

drawing her back to him. "Does she imagine I am tired of her because
    Line 4471 - Query word imagine

myself for such an act. We can wait awhile. Neither of us are old. I
    Line 4473 - Query word awhile

"She mustn't suspect that we've been in here together. Quick, Trace,
    Line 4478 - Query word mustn't

slip right out of this door. I'll toss your hat out of the kitchen."
    Line 4479 - Query word toss

Mrs. Grippin suspected that many misdemeanors had been committed
    Line 4486 - Query word misdemeanors

"Don't be so long," said the housekeeper, as her brother leisurely
    Line 4492 - Query word leisurely

"Precipitancy," replied the major, "is a common evil, and I intend
    Line 4496 - Query word Precipitancy

act, you avoid many mistakes which you would otherwise make."
    Line 4498 - Query word mistakes

act, you avoid many mistakes which you would otherwise make."
    Line 4498 - Query word otherwise

"Come in," said the housekeeper, as she ushered their expected guest
    Line 4512 - Query word ushered

"Are the folks all well?" asked Green, with a degree of politeness to
    Line 4515 - Query word politeness

Partly obeying the directions of the housekeeper. Green sat down, but
    Line 4521 - Query word directions

about the room in an oval circuit, unconsciously following the same
    Line 4523 - Query word unconsciously

path through each evolution. When this became monotonous, he resumed
    Line 4524 - Query word evolution

path through each evolution. When this became monotonous, he resumed
    Line 4524 - Query word resumed

his seat and tapped the floor alternately with his heel and his toe.
    Line 4525 - Query word heel

As the major entered the apartment, he wsa again walking the floor.
    Line 4526 - Query word wsa

around after my friends. You don't have so much leisure as lots of
    Line 4536 - Query word friends

around after my friends. You don't have so much leisure as lots of
    Line 4536 - Query word lots

"How much do I owe you?" inquired Ratke, with a mixture of dignity
    Line 4542 - Query word mixture

and civility.
    Line 4543 - Query word civility

good a lawyer as there is in Jackson, and he figured it."
    Line 4553 - Query word figured

"Mr. Collins may be good authority," Ratke rejoined; "but the figures
    Line 4555 - Query word figures

"Oh, I'm satisfied with Collins's work," said Green. "He's always
    Line 4558 - Query word Collins's

mistake, if sanctioned by me, would put a half dollar in your pocket.
    Line 4562 - Query word sanctioned

I oppose it, not for the half-dollar, but for the principle which is
    Line 4563 - Query word principle

involved."
    Line 4564 - Query word involved

belongs to me in one way, I will in another."
    Line 4567 - Query word belongs

continued, addressing Green, "in the presence of three witnesses, I
    Line 4570 - Query word addressing

continued, addressing Green, "in the presence of three witnesses, I
    Line 4570 - Query word witnesses

Mrs. Grippin. Her form straightened, her upper lip rose with an
    Line 4583 - Query word straightened

Mrs. Grippin. Her form straightened, her upper lip rose with an
    Line 4583 - Query word lip

expression of ferocity, her long fingers gripped together like the
    Line 4584 - Query word ferocity

expression of ferocity, her long fingers gripped together like the
    Line 4584 - Query word gripped

talons of a destructive bird.
    Line 4585 - Query word talons

talons of a destructive bird.
    Line 4585 - Query word destructive

"You, Josiah Green!" she said slowly. "You talk of cheating, you that
    Line 4587 - Query word cheating

house. We must not disgrace ourselves by treating him with
    Line 4591 - Query word treating

discourtesy."
    Line 4592 - Query word discourtesy

"You can't run me, James Ratke," retorted the angry woman, "if you do
    Line 4594 - Query word angry

your place, and you cheated him out of it. You got wheat of him when
    Line 4598 - Query word cheated

your family was sick, and you said they'd starve if they didn't have
    Line 4599 - Query word starve

you to settle that account."
    Line 4603 - Query word settle

way do you mean.' A better way to smouse folks is the only way you've
    Line 4613 - Query word smouse

chose since I've known you. That's all the lingo you've got, and you
    Line 4614 - Query word lingo

cents. I'll call it six shillings."
    Line 4623 - Query word shillings

"Here," said Green feeling that he deserved credit for generosity,
    Line 4625 - Query word deserved

"Here," said Green feeling that he deserved credit for generosity,
    Line 4625 - Query word generosity

Fearing that Mrs. Grippin would make another demand, the penurious
    Line 4628 - Query word Fearing

Fearing that Mrs. Grippin would make another demand, the penurious
    Line 4628 - Query word penurious

jerks and drove rapidly away.
    Line 4630 - Query word jerks

written by Durgenson, is subjoined:
    Line 4634 - Query word written

"I dislike to speak about the sum I lent you. But the trouble is I am
    Line 4636 - Query word dislike

hard-pushed. I have got to have $4,000 the 24th of this month. After
    Line 4637 - Query word 24th

ready for me the afternoon of the 23rd, when I will come to your
    Line 4639 - Query word 23rd

He came presently to a pond the dimensions of which had manifestly
    Line 4651 - Query word pond

He came presently to a pond the dimensions of which had manifestly
    Line 4651 - Query word manifestly

shrunk during the hot weather, for a dry, barren circle marked where
    Line 4652 - Query word shrunk

shrunk during the hot weather, for a dry, barren circle marked where
    Line 4652 - Query word barren

shrunk during the hot weather, for a dry, barren circle marked where
    Line 4652 - Query word circle

ground and threw off his coat and vest, for which he substituted a
    Line 4654 - Query word vest

disguise he added a mask from which straggled a sandy beard, no one
    Line 4656 - Query word straggled

would have recognized in the ruffianly looking figure the genteel
    Line 4657 - Query word ruffianly

would have recognized in the ruffianly looking figure the genteel
    Line 4657 - Query word genteel

In the capacious hollow of an oak the adventurer stored the clothing
    Line 4660 - Query word capacious

In the capacious hollow of an oak the adventurer stored the clothing
    Line 4660 - Query word adventurer

In the capacious hollow of an oak the adventurer stored the clothing
    Line 4660 - Query word stored

which he had removed, and with his lightened bundle again proceeded
    Line 4661 - Query word lightened

he deviated from his former route. Turning to the right, he emerged
    Line 4663 - Query word deviated

from, the church. In a few minutes he was stalking along the edge of
    Line 4665 - Query word stalking

the graveyard, and a brief walk took him to a large wood pile which
    Line 4666 - Query word graveyard

the graveyard, and a brief walk took him to a large wood pile which
    Line 4666 - Query word brief

carelessness for everything unconnected with finance. The barns which
    Line 4670 - Query word carelessness

carelessness for everything unconnected with finance. The barns which
    Line 4670 - Query word unconnected

carelessness for everything unconnected with finance. The barns which
    Line 4670 - Query word finance

sheltered the stock were well and neatly built. The house which
    Line 4671 - Query word sheltered

harbored the family was paintless and old, the clapboards were loose,
    Line 4672 - Query word harbored

harbored the family was paintless and old, the clapboards were loose,
    Line 4672 - Query word paintless

harbored the family was paintless and old, the clapboards were loose,
    Line 4672 - Query word clapboards

and some of the bricks had fallen from one chimney. It consisted of
    Line 4673 - Query word bricks

and some of the bricks had fallen from one chimney. It consisted of
    Line 4673 - Query word chimney

and some of the bricks had fallen from one chimney. It consisted of
    Line 4673 - Query word consisted

an upright and a long, low wing which lapped beyond the taller part
    Line 4674 - Query word lapped

of the dwelling. Montcalm was before the overlapping part and close
    Line 4675 - Query word overlapping

to the outside cellar stairs. On the back-stoop were a swill-barrel,
    Line 4676 - Query word outside

three swill-pails, some hoes and rakes and a rickety table made of a
    Line 4677 - Query word pails

three swill-pails, some hoes and rakes and a rickety table made of a
    Line 4677 - Query word hoes

three swill-pails, some hoes and rakes and a rickety table made of a
    Line 4677 - Query word rakes

long box, on which sat pans and kettles. Whatever was useful merely
    Line 4678 - Query word kettles

long box, on which sat pans and kettles. Whatever was useful merely
    Line 4678 - Query word useful

in pleasing the eye or fancy was unnoticed by Green. Whatever added
    Line 4679 - Query word eye

to his wealth received from him studious attention.
    Line 4680 - Query word studious

stoop. His mask and padded jacket, annoying incumbrances in
    Line 4683 - Query word incumbrances

midsummer, he stripped off; and taking an auger from his bundle, he
    Line 4684 - Query word midsummer

midsummer, he stripped off; and taking an auger from his bundle, he
    Line 4684 - Query word stripped

commenced to bore a hole in the cellar door, basing his calculations
    Line 4685 - Query word basing

for the gnawing of a rat. He pushed through the orifice a wire
    Line 4688 - Query word gnawing

for the gnawing of a rat. He pushed through the orifice a wire
    Line 4688 - Query word rat

for the gnawing of a rat. He pushed through the orifice a wire
    Line 4688 - Query word orifice

for the gnawing of a rat. He pushed through the orifice a wire
    Line 4688 - Query word wire

it rested. The door, which opened outwardly, he blocked with a stone,
    Line 4690 - Query word rested

it rested. The door, which opened outwardly, he blocked with a stone,
    Line 4690 - Query word outwardly

it rested. The door, which opened outwardly, he blocked with a stone,
    Line 4690 - Query word blocked

lest it should swing back and cause a strain on some attachment which
    Line 4691 - Query word lest

he had not yet discovered. He bored a second and a third hole and cut
    Line 4692 - Query word bored

out the spaces which intervened between them. Feeling through the
    Line 4693 - Query word spaces

out the spaces which intervened between them. Feeling through the
    Line 4693 - Query word intervened

dared not critically examine. By means of the auger and a sharp knife
    Line 4695 - Query word critically

dared not critically examine. By means of the auger and a sharp knife
    Line 4695 - Query word examine

he further enlarged the aperture until he could push through it his
    Line 4696 - Query word enlarged

he further enlarged the aperture until he could push through it his
    Line 4696 - Query word aperture

pulled, would have produced an explosion and might have brought ruin
    Line 4701 - Query word explosion

milk-pans were suspended from the floor above. In a remote corner of
    Line 4704 - Query word remote

the cellar were some shelves which were in the course of erection. A
    Line 4705 - Query word erection

ends of the longer ones were on the upper of these shelves.
    Line 4707 - Query word ends

the ground. On examination it was found to be the curbing of a well.
    Line 4710 - Query word examination

the ground. On examination it was found to be the curbing of a well.
    Line 4710 - Query word curbing

When Green was poor, his ideas of economy told him that he could dig
    Line 4711 - Query word ideas

When Green was poor, his ideas of economy told him that he could dig
    Line 4711 - Query word economy

When Green was poor, his ideas of economy told him that he could dig
    Line 4711 - Query word dig

than from the surface of the ground; and, as he prospered, he
    Line 4713 - Query word prospered

Montcalm donned his mask and padded jacket, and again his exterior
    Line 4717 - Query word donned

Montcalm donned his mask and padded jacket, and again his exterior
    Line 4717 - Query word exterior

coincided with the nature of his errand. A second flight of stairs
    Line 4718 - Query word coincided

room. Noiselessly going into the kitchen, he heard the light
    Line 4728 - Query word Noiselessly

breathing of Green and his wife in their bedroom which was, he
    Line 4729 - Query word breathing

it, gave a warning creak, and he lifted from it his foot and set it
    Line 4733 - Query word creak

on the next stair.
    Line 4734 - Query word stair

Two bedrooms were partitioned from the main part of the chamber. In
    Line 4736 - Query word partitioned

man. As the man was long and the tick was short, about twenty inches
    Line 4738 - Query word tick

the legs were the lean body, the flaxen hair and weak, expressionless
    Line 4740 - Query word lean

the legs were the lean body, the flaxen hair and weak, expressionless
    Line 4740 - Query word flaxen

the legs were the lean body, the flaxen hair and weak, expressionless
    Line 4740 - Query word expressionless

As Montcalm by one of his long legs pulled him crosswise of the bed,
    Line 4743 - Query word crosswise

the half-wit exclaimed, "Oh, Misser Green, 'tain't mornin' yet!"
    Line 4744 - Query word mornin

Such was William Henry Harrison's terror at the rude awakening that
    Line 4749 - Query word Harrison's

he could only stare at the figure, whose broad shoulders and
    Line 4750 - Query word stare

straggling sandy beard looked particularly savage in the light of the
    Line 4751 - Query word straggling

"Oh, Misser Green," wailed the fearful half-wit, "I awful sick, I
    Line 4790 - Query word wailed

"Oh, Misser Green," wailed the fearful half-wit, "I awful sick, I
    Line 4790 - Query word fearful

exasperated, "Now don't let me hear another word out of you
    Line 4804 - Query word exasperated

Montcalm emphasized the appeal by knocking out some pane of glass,
    Line 4825 - Query word emphasized

Montcalm emphasized the appeal by knocking out some pane of glass,
    Line 4825 - Query word pane

jerked the bed, breaking a crosspiece, and struck the wall so
    Line 4827 - Query word jerked

jerked the bed, breaking a crosspiece, and struck the wall so
    Line 4827 - Query word crosspiece

violently that a yard of loose plaster fell from the ceiling to the
    Line 4828 - Query word ceiling

chamber. "I'll thrash you with an inch of your life! You won't be
    Line 4835 - Query word thrash

chamber. "I'll thrash you with an inch of your life! You won't be
    Line 4835 - Query word inch

having any more fits or fussing for one while. What is this?" he
    Line 4836 - Query word fussing

main part of the chamber. "What fool's caper is this?"
    Line 4838 - Query word fool's

main part of the chamber. "What fool's caper is this?"
    Line 4838 - Query word caper

the bedroom, presented a pistol at his head.
    Line 4841 - Query word pistol

"Tell me where your money is," said the unwelcome visitor. "I can't
    Line 4843 - Query word unwelcome

stay here long because my wife expects me home."
    Line 4844 - Query word expects

"The money you got to-day," replied Montcalm, assuming a tone which
    Line 4848 - Query word assuming

corresponded with his rough garb. "You can't fool me. I know you've
    Line 4849 - Query word corresponded

corresponded with his rough garb. "You can't fool me. I know you've
    Line 4849 - Query word garb

"You lie," said Montcalm, clutching him by the throat. "Let me know
    Line 4854 - Query word clutching

where it is, or I'll blow your brains out."
    Line 4855 - Query word brains

dollars that I saved out for Osborne. You can ask Jane and she'll
    Line 4859 - Query word Jane

dollars that I saved out for Osborne. You can ask Jane and she'll
    Line 4859 - Query word she'll

slide to his lantern, "and don't you dare hang back, or play me any
    Line 4863 - Query word slide

tricks. Here, you fellow on the bed, you lie where you are till I
    Line 4864 - Query word tricks

come back. And don't you stir. I'll lay this quilt over your legs,
    Line 4865 - Query word stir

just in this way, and I can tell if it is moved. If I find a wrinkle
    Line 4866 - Query word wrinkle

So saying, Montcalm adjusted the quilt and followed Green, who in
    Line 4869 - Query word adjusted

which went tumbling down the stairs.
    Line 4872 - Query word tumbling

saw-horses. Montcalm deposited his lantern on the board and
    Line 4883 - Query word deposited

vigilantly watched the execution of his order. Reluctantly stepping
    Line 4884 - Query word vigilantly

vigilantly watched the execution of his order. Reluctantly stepping
    Line 4884 - Query word execution

over another saw-horse and removing the stone from the mortar, which
    Line 4885 - Query word removing

over another saw-horse and removing the stone from the mortar, which
    Line 4885 - Query word mortar

pocket-book and handed it to Montcalm. They again stepped over the
    Line 4887 - Query word handed

saw-horse, and Montcalm, opening the pocket-book, examined its
    Line 4888 - Query word examined

contents. Green saw passing from him part of the riches the slave of
    Line 4889 - Query word riches

which he had been and still was. For it he had plowed, sown and
    Line 4890 - Query word plowed

reaped, had taken the poor man's dollar and the widow's mite, had
    Line 4891 - Query word reaped

reaped, had taken the poor man's dollar and the widow's mite, had
    Line 4891 - Query word widow's

reaped, had taken the poor man's dollar and the widow's mite, had
    Line 4891 - Query word mite

repeatedly outraged his conscience.
    Line 4892 - Query word outraged

repeatedly outraged his conscience.
    Line 4892 - Query word conscience

Montcalm, who, staggering back, caught his legs on the saw-horse and
    Line 4895 - Query word staggering

barely missing his aim; but as his weapon was clutched by the unknown
    Line 4897 - Query word unknown

burglar, he precipitated himself upon him. Montcalm whose movements
    Line 4898 - Query word precipitated

were impeded by his thick jacket, succeeded in twisting from
    Line 4899 - Query word impeded

underneath his antagonist and regaining his feet. His mask, which had
    Line 4900 - Query word antagonist

underneath his antagonist and regaining his feet. His mask, which had
    Line 4900 - Query word regaining

become unfastened, hung loose about his neck; and Green partly
    Line 4901 - Query word unfastened

unnerved him by giving a yell of recognition and pressing with
    Line 4902 - Query word unnerved

unnerved him by giving a yell of recognition and pressing with
    Line 4902 - Query word recognition

unnerved him by giving a yell of recognition and pressing with
    Line 4902 - Query word pressing

renewed vigor to the attack. Having a poor hold of his opponent, and
    Line 4903 - Query word renewed

being in every way at a disadvantage, he felt his strength begin to
    Line 4904 - Query word disadvantage

being in every way at a disadvantage, he felt his strength begin to
    Line 4904 - Query word strength

touch was sufficient to send him toppling over, extinguishing the
    Line 4908 - Query word toppling

touch was sufficient to send him toppling over, extinguishing the
    Line 4908 - Query word extinguishing

The cellar was in almost total darkness. The scanty light which came
    Line 4911 - Query word darkness

The cellar was in almost total darkness. The scanty light which came
    Line 4911 - Query word scanty

on the west, was lessened by screens and thick masses of overhanging
    Line 4913 - Query word screens

on the west, was lessened by screens and thick masses of overhanging
    Line 4913 - Query word masses

vines, Montcalm threw aside the ax, groped hurriedly and found the
    Line 4914 - Query word vines

vines, Montcalm threw aside the ax, groped hurriedly and found the
    Line 4914 - Query word groped

as the seconds passed and there was no perceptible movement on the
    Line 4916 - Query word perceptible

part of his late adversary, he felt that he need not anticipate
    Line 4917 - Query word adversary

immediate pursuit. He wondered that the stroke, which had but grazed
    Line 4918 - Query word wondered

immediate pursuit. He wondered that the stroke, which had but grazed
    Line 4918 - Query word grazed

the head of his opponent, should produce unconsciousness. An
    Line 4919 - Query word unconsciousness

unconquerable desire seized him to learn what had been the result of
    Line 4920 - Query word unconquerable

the blow which he had delivered. The knowledge, however, could be at
    Line 4921 - Query word delivered

shrank. While he was groping for his lantern, he heard a sound which
    Line 4923 - Query word groping

filled him with an indescribable dread. It was the steady trickling
    Line 4924 - Query word indescribable

filled him with an indescribable dread. It was the steady trickling
    Line 4924 - Query word dread

filled him with an indescribable dread. It was the steady trickling
    Line 4924 - Query word steady

filled him with an indescribable dread. It was the steady trickling
    Line 4924 - Query word trickling

second match and succeeded in igniting the wick of the lantern.
    Line 4928 - Query word igniting

second match and succeeded in igniting the wick of the lantern.
    Line 4928 - Query word wick

The sudden transition from darkness to light at first dazzled his
    Line 4930 - Query word transition

The sudden transition from darkness to light at first dazzled his
    Line 4930 - Query word darkness

eyes. He saw barrels, the unhewn wall, the milk-shelves, and lastly a
    Line 4931 - Query word barrels

lengthwise of a plank, which descended toward the well, and which had
    Line 4933 - Query word descended

one end resting on the curb and the other on an elevated and hardened
    Line 4934 - Query word resting

bed of water-lime. His head was on the edge of the plank and nearest
    Line 4935 - Query word lime

parts of the body rested on the ground. No wound was visible, but
    Line 4938 - Query word parts

parts of the body rested on the ground. No wound was visible, but
    Line 4938 - Query word rested

that trickling which had so wrought upon the nerves of Montcalm. The
    Line 4941 - Query word trickling

that trickling which had so wrought upon the nerves of Montcalm. The
    Line 4941 - Query word nerves

depredator, as he turned over the prostrate form, dreaded what his
    Line 4942 - Query word dreaded

met his gaze. The upper portion of the right side of the forehead,
    Line 4944 - Query word gaze

including the skull and a thin section of brain, had been cleft and
    Line 4945 - Query word section

now hung suspended by a piece of skin. Laid bare by that destructive
    Line 4946 - Query word destructive

convolutions of its exterior were partly disorganized by the leveling
    Line 4948 - Query word exterior

of the ridges. Much of the gray matter had been shaved from the
    Line 4949 - Query word gray

surface of the cut, or crowded into the irregular furrows; so that,
    Line 4950 - Query word irregular

A chill passed over Montcalm, which was not wholly a reaction from
    Line 4954 - Query word reaction

excessive heat generated by his physical struggle. But a few minutes
    Line 4955 - Query word generated

habitation of a living intellect, that amorphous mass of brain had
    Line 4957 - Query word intellect

though the reflections had been of a mean and penurious character?
    Line 4961 - Query word penurious

the poor? The interruption of their existence was no human right, and
    Line 4963 - Query word interruption

woe to him by whom they were destroyed. Montcalm could scarcely
    Line 4964 - Query word woe

for his crime. The monotonous trickling into the well prolonged the
    Line 4968 - Query word trickling

for his crime. The monotonous trickling into the well prolonged the
    Line 4968 - Query word prolonged

spell which bound him, as a sameness of sound, by holding the
    Line 4969 - Query word holding

the outside door. As he did so, he stumbled over one of the rubber
    Line 4975 - Query word outside

boots which he had knocked down in his descent to the cellar, and
    Line 4976 - Query word descent

deliberative caution, which prompted him to draw on the boots and
    Line 4979 - Query word prompted

walk several times across a strip of sand, thus making it apparent
    Line 4980 - Query word apparent

and who habitually had them in readiness for his use, was actually
    Line 4983 - Query word actually

husband. That cry in a measure loosed him from his lethargy of mind.
    Line 4986 - Query word husband

husband. That cry in a measure loosed him from his lethargy of mind.
    Line 4986 - Query word lethargy

Gathering up his shoes, the tools and the lantern, he emerged from
    Line 4987 - Query word shoes

himself with no concern as to the advisability of his action.
    Line 4993 - Query word concern

unmistakably was to flee from a neighborhood which might at any
    Line 4996 - Query word unmistakably

unmistakably was to flee from a neighborhood which might at any
    Line 4996 - Query word flee

roused him, might have led him to take measures for his safety; but
    Line 4998 - Query word safety

The intervention of the barns kept him from seeing the house, in
    Line 5001 - Query word seeing

which and in whose occupants alone he was interested. Crossing the
    Line 5002 - Query word occupants

which and in whose occupants alone he was interested. Crossing the
    Line 5002 - Query word Crossing

which had slept the late master of the house.
    Line 5005 - Query word slept

It soon passed from Montcalm's sight and reappeared from a window of
    Line 5007 - Query word reappeared

husband, and probable that she would not abandon it until she found
    Line 5011 - Query word husband

arranged, he trudged slowly through the forest. And now, for the
    Line 5015 - Query word arranged

first time, he experienced a fear, which approached certainty, that
    Line 5016 - Query word experienced

first time, he experienced a fear, which approached certainty, that
    Line 5016 - Query word certainty

coward. It was the conviction of a brave man who was willing to
    Line 5018 - Query word conviction

struggle when there was hope, but who believed that he was menaced by
    Line 5019 - Query word menaced

By the edge of the pond he halted. His mind, in that condition of
    Line 5022 - Query word pond

vacillation which follows a severe shock to conscience, had veered
    Line 5023 - Query word shock

vacillation which follows a severe shock to conscience, had veered
    Line 5023 - Query word conscience

from indifference, or rather stupor, to despairing expectation. In an
    Line 5024 - Query word expectation

indecisive conflict reason and imagination contended as to whether
    Line 5025 - Query word conflict

the monotonous night sounds were common and natural occurrences, or
    Line 5026 - Query word sounds

frogs, the low groaning and high wailing utterances of which came
    Line 5028 - Query word groaning

incessantly from the pond, seemed to be an arraignment against which
    Line 5029 - Query word pond

incessantly from the pond, seemed to be an arraignment against which
    Line 5029 - Query word arraignment

He removed his outer garments and put on in their places those which
    Line 5032 - Query word outer

He removed his outer garments and put on in their places those which
    Line 5032 - Query word garments

he had stored in the oak. There was no concealment which he
    Line 5033 - Query word stored

open fields were being plowed and cultivated, the woods were rambled
    Line 5036 - Query word plowed

open fields were being plowed and cultivated, the woods were rambled
    Line 5036 - Query word cultivated

through by hunters from Sharptown and Oakville, the swamp was nearly
    Line 5037 - Query word hunters

dry and was daily visited by berrying parties. Bringing his
    Line 5038 - Query word parties

clothing, including the lubber boots and his shoes, inside the tree.
    Line 5040 - Query word shoes

for his palm was coated with dried and stiffened blood.
    Line 5042 - Query word dried

Passing over the verdureless circle to the deep hole where the
    Line 5044 - Query word circle

remnant of the pond remained, Montcalm thrust his hand into the
    Line 5045 - Query word pond

remnant of the pond remained, Montcalm thrust his hand into the
    Line 5045 - Query word remained

remnant of the pond remained, Montcalm thrust his hand into the
    Line 5045 - Query word thrust

applied also some of the roiled liquid to his forehead, forgetting
    Line 5047 - Query word forgetting

that little more than a stone's-throw from him was a clear spring.
    Line 5048 - Query word throw

As he left the pond, he reflected on the change which the night's
    Line 5050 - Query word pond

While he was in his career of thieving and swindling, he had marked
    Line 5052 - Query word thieving

he would marry some virtuous girl, between whom and himself existed a
    Line 5054 - Query word marry

religion. Vanished was that dream of happiness. Judicious and good
    Line 5056 - Query word dream

religion. Vanished was that dream of happiness. Judicious and good
    Line 5056 - Query word happiness

with such a secret weighing upon him, when every instant there posed
    Line 5058 - Query word weighing

with such a secret weighing upon him, when every instant there posed
    Line 5058 - Query word posed

been engaged in wholesale trickery and theft, but blood he had
    Line 5060 - Query word trickery

all, his memory. An itching sensation was between the fingers of his
    Line 5062 - Query word memory

all, his memory. An itching sensation was between the fingers of his
    Line 5062 - Query word sensation

threw from him a leech which must have become attached as he bathed
    Line 5065 - Query word leech

in the pond. It was fully a minute before he realized by how trivial
    Line 5066 - Query word pond

in the pond. It was fully a minute before he realized by how trivial
    Line 5066 - Query word realized

CHAPTER XIII.
    Line 5073 - Query word XIII

"A DANIEL COME TO JUDGMENT."
    Line 5074 - Query word DANIEL

Ratke and Montcalm attended the inquest over the body of Josiah
    Line 5076 - Query word attended

outside cellar door to be closed, that the body might not be tampered
    Line 5079 - Query word outside

with before the official examination. The cellar would still have
    Line 5080 - Query word examination

been easy of access had not Sparks nailed a board over the hole which
    Line 5081 - Query word access

"How do you do, Major?" said a large, slightly corpulent man, with
    Line 5085 - Query word slightly

long chin whiskers, a rumbling voice and a breath which was tainted
    Line 5086 - Query word whiskers

long chin whiskers, a rumbling voice and a breath which was tainted
    Line 5086 - Query word rumbling

with whiskey.
    Line 5087 - Query word whiskey

"This is a sad affair," observed the doctor, "a lamentable happening,
    Line 5091 - Query word happening

a bad job. Terrible, terrible terrible," and Dr. Rorus raised his
    Line 5092 - Query word job

physician took an uncertain step and waved his fist in the air.
    Line 5095 - Query word uncertain

physician took an uncertain step and waved his fist in the air.
    Line 5095 - Query word fist

The major, whose own pomposity of language was unconsciously
    Line 5097 - Query word unconsciously

harangue, but he was obliged either to tolerate it or to beat a
    Line 5099 - Query word harangue

retreat. His friends had noticed that immediately after he had met
    Line 5100 - Query word friends

philosophical and historical allusions were less frequent.
    Line 5102 - Query word philosophical

philosophical and historical allusions were less frequent.
    Line 5102 - Query word frequent

conspiracy. The victim was called up in the middle of the night and
    Line 5107 - Query word conspiracy

was never seen alive again. He was called by a certain individual
    Line 5108 - Query word alive

"They will not convict William Henry Harrison on such proof," said
    Line 5111 - Query word proof

Ratke. "I hope they have stronger evidence than that."
    Line 5112 - Query word stronger

in prison and made to suffer. With whom is he dealing? With you? No.
    Line 5116 - Query word suffer

in prison and made to suffer. With whom is he dealing? With you? No.
    Line 5116 - Query word dealing

the people of Michigan are a wonderful people. They have developed
    Line 5119 - Query word developed

and grown up to greatness. Plenty of hardship, plenty of enemies to
    Line 5120 - Query word hardship

and grown up to greatness. Plenty of hardship, plenty of enemies to
    Line 5120 - Query word enemies

fight. There is, or was when they grew up, the Indian, the bear, the
    Line 5121 - Query word grew

and--hardship. The Michigan boy has the enterprise. You can't beat
    Line 5124 - Query word hardship

Evidence must have, has got to have, facts behind it."
    Line 5131 - Query word facts

"There is no denying the fact. Major," declared Rorus, detaining
    Line 5136 - Query word fact

Ratke by clutching his sleeve. "Brace against it and it will push you
    Line 5137 - Query word clutching

Ratke by clutching his sleeve. "Brace against it and it will push you
    Line 5137 - Query word sleeve

drug-store, and my practice, and my diploma to any scholar, or set of
    Line 5139 - Query word practice

scholars, who will disprove what I say, or demonstrate that it isn't
    Line 5140 - Query word disprove

"Precisely," acknowledged the major, glancing uneasily about, but
    Line 5144 - Query word acknowledged

"Precisely," acknowledged the major, glancing uneasily about, but
    Line 5144 - Query word glancing

"I claim," said Rorus, "I assert positively, without a tinge of
    Line 5147 - Query word assert

explicit. He will go to some saloon, and he'll drink. Then he'll
    Line 5152 - Query word drink

as he's drunk, he'll get whipped and get a black eye. So you will
    Line 5154 - Query word whipped

as he's drunk, he'll get whipped and get a black eye. So you will
    Line 5154 - Query word eye

admit. Major, there is no profit in a black eye. I claim, and I defy
    Line 5155 - Query word admit

admit. Major, there is no profit in a black eye. I claim, and I defy
    Line 5155 - Query word eye

"Exactly," remarked the major with a sigh.
    Line 5160 - Query word sigh

greatest philosophers, and thinkers, and orators, and smart men of
    Line 5163 - Query word philosophers

the present day, and of the past, and that ever lived, of Aristotle,
    Line 5164 - Query word past

and Epictetus, and Bacon, and Socrates, and Pluto. Oh, that Pluto was
    Line 5165 - Query word Socrates

a wonderful man. His philosophy is mild--and gentle--and beneficent
    Line 5166 - Query word mild

At this juncture, to the major's joy, he was approached by Sparks and
    Line 5172 - Query word juncture

informed that his testimony would be required, and that the jury, the
    Line 5173 - Query word informed

witnesses and the officers of the inquest were to go through the
    Line 5174 - Query word witnesses

house and view the cellar before the outside door was opened for the
    Line 5175 - Query word outside

"I tracked him down south in the sand as much as forty rods," said
    Line 5182 - Query word tracked

the sheriff, whose unpretentious manner up to this time had concealed
    Line 5183 - Query word unpretentious

the sheriff, whose unpretentious manner up to this time had concealed
    Line 5183 - Query word concealed

his interest in the tragedy. "Then he went to one side. There was a
    Line 5184 - Query word tragedy

"It's queer he should go in the sand," commented the prosecuting
    Line 5188 - Query word queer

attorney, a sleek young man who had red cheeks which were evidently
    Line 5189 - Query word cheeks

measure the tracks. Who's got a rule?"
    Line 5196 - Query word Who's

measure the tracks. Who's got a rule?"
    Line 5196 - Query word rule

With a copy of the statutes in his hand Sparks administered the oath
    Line 5202 - Query word statutes

With a copy of the statutes in his hand Sparks administered the oath
    Line 5202 - Query word administered

Major? Intangible, incomprehensible. You can't get at it. You want to
    Line 5214 - Query word Intangible

put it under a microscope, but it isn't there. You grab for it, but
    Line 5215 - Query word grab

aroused the displeasure of Sparks, who ordered two constables to
    Line 5222 - Query word aroused

aroused the displeasure of Sparks, who ordered two constables to
    Line 5222 - Query word constables

was slow, like all forced backward movements of a crowd. Those who
    Line 5224 - Query word slow

of interest, and those who were in front were by them prevented from
    Line 5226 - Query word prevented

doing so. Finally motion was imparted to the sluggish mass, which,
    Line 5227 - Query word Finally

doing so. Finally motion was imparted to the sluggish mass, which,
    Line 5227 - Query word imparted

most obstinately against yielding his position, was crowded toward
    Line 5230 - Query word yielding

was precipitated to a sitting posture. Unfortunately for him he was a
    Line 5232 - Query word precipitated

lean man, so very lean, that, doubled up as he was, he shot inside of
    Line 5233 - Query word lean

lean man, so very lean, that, doubled up as he was, he shot inside of
    Line 5233 - Query word lean

the barrel, where, helpless and clamorous, he remained with his chin
    Line 5234 - Query word remained

forming equally elevated slopes. The excited throng pressed about him
    Line 5236 - Query word pressed

and drove him farther into the well, but he was finally rescued, and
    Line 5237 - Query word finally

When the dead body had been critically examined, it was wrapped in
    Line 5240 - Query word critically

When the dead body had been critically examined, it was wrapped in
    Line 5240 - Query word examined

When the dead body had been critically examined, it was wrapped in
    Line 5240 - Query word wrapped

room directly above the cellar, where the testimony was to be taken.
    Line 5242 - Query word directly

"Gentlemen," said Sparks, "we've met to-day to do our duty, and
    Line 5244 - Query word Gentlemen

it, and what he done it for. Folks'll expect it of us, consequently
    Line 5247 - Query word expect

Sparks now proceeded to the examination of witnesses. Dr. Rorus gave
    Line 5250 - Query word examination

Sparks now proceeded to the examination of witnesses. Dr. Rorus gave
    Line 5250 - Query word witnesses

straggling testimony relating to the organs affected by the wound, to
    Line 5251 - Query word straggling

straggling testimony relating to the organs affected by the wound, to
    Line 5251 - Query word relating

that the sheriff and the prosecuting attorney bade him confine his
    Line 5253 - Query word confine

attention to necessary facts.
    Line 5254 - Query word facts

that was the last time he had seen him alive. When asked by the
    Line 5261 - Query word alive

neighbor was dead, he could not with propriety explain their trouble.
    Line 5265 - Query word propriety

neighbor was dead, he could not with propriety explain their trouble.
    Line 5265 - Query word explain

He was liable to prejudice. The account which he would furnish might
    Line 5266 - Query word prejudice

He was liable to prejudice. The account which he would furnish might
    Line 5266 - Query word furnish

be necessary to give the jury a correct idea of the circumstances.
    Line 5268 - Query word idea

silent respecting their relations. He could only inform them that,
    Line 5270 - Query word relations

however intense or unjust his animosity, it never would have prompted
    Line 5271 - Query word prompted

him to injure in person, reputation or finance the victim of the
    Line 5272 - Query word person

him to injure in person, reputation or finance the victim of the
    Line 5272 - Query word reputation

him to injure in person, reputation or finance the victim of the
    Line 5272 - Query word finance

recent tragedy.
    Line 5273 - Query word tragedy

Mrs. Green was nearly overcome by grief, and the jury allowed her to
    Line 5275 - Query word overcome

Mrs. Green was nearly overcome by grief, and the jury allowed her to
    Line 5275 - Query word grief

tell her story without being subjected to many questions. She was
    Line 5276 - Query word questions

quite deaf. She had been awakened by her husband in the night. Green
    Line 5277 - Query word husband

herself, could hear the calls, though she could not understand them.
    Line 5279 - Query word herself

From her husband she learned their import. William Henry Harrison
    Line 5280 - Query word husband

window lights and jarred loose a lot of plaster. Green at last went
    Line 5284 - Query word lights

did not come. After a while she became alarmed and ascended to the
    Line 5286 - Query word ascended

chamber. William Henry Harrison acted strangely. She asked him where
    Line 5287 - Query word acted

chamber. William Henry Harrison acted strangely. She asked him where
    Line 5287 - Query word strangely

her husband was, but he returned an answer so low that she could not
    Line 5288 - Query word husband

hear him. She thought it was a whisper. She insisted that he should
    Line 5289 - Query word insisted

speak, and he was still obstinate. She tried to pull him from bed,
    Line 5290 - Query word tried

but she was not strong enough. Then she endeavored to haul the
    Line 5291 - Query word haul

clothes from him. At that he resisted and even acted mad. She never
    Line 5292 - Query word acted

over him, he carefully replaced it again. He would fold it and put it
    Line 5294 - Query word replaced

over his legs, and she saw him arrange it so that a wrinkle would run
    Line 5295 - Query word wrinkle

grew frantic, and she was afraid longer to stay by him. After hunting
    Line 5297 - Query word grew

grew frantic, and she was afraid longer to stay by him. After hunting
    Line 5297 - Query word hunting

through the house she went down cellar and found her husband. She
    Line 5298 - Query word husband

sure she did not touch the body. When she recovered from the shock
    Line 5300 - Query word shock

sufficiently to think and act, she proceeded to Mr. Holmes's house
    Line 5301 - Query word sufficiently

and awakened him. He, with another neighbor whom he aroused, came
    Line 5302 - Query word aroused

William Henry Harrison Hibbard."
    Line 5306 - Query word Hibbard

"William Henry Harrison Hibbard, you do solemnly swear that the
    Line 5312 - Query word Hibbard

person here lyin' dead shall be the truth, the whole truth and
    Line 5314 - Query word person

"Now, William Henry Harrison Hibbard," Sparks began, "we want you to
    Line 5337 - Query word Hibbard

William Henry Harrison's terror of the preceding night was revived.
    Line 5342 - Query word Harrison's

He remembered the dark-lantern, the hideous face which had peered
    Line 5343 - Query word peered

into his, the great shadow which had been thrown on the ceiling and
    Line 5344 - Query word shadow

into his, the great shadow which had been thrown on the ceiling and
    Line 5344 - Query word ceiling

his head and shoulders and cast an uneasy glance toward the door
    Line 5346 - Query word cast

his head and shoulders and cast an uneasy glance toward the door
    Line 5346 - Query word glance

Poor William Henry Harrison, incapable of defense, could only stare
    Line 5355 - Query word stare

"I dono," responded the half-wit.
    Line 5361 - Query word dono

yourself, a-doin' like that. There he'd fed you an' kept you an' give
    Line 5365 - Query word he'd

yourself, a-doin' like that. There he'd fed you an' kept you an' give
    Line 5365 - Query word fed

"Young man," said Dr. Rorus, in his most resonant bass, "do you
    Line 5368 - Query word bass

The prosecuting attorney here objected to Rorus's questioning the
    Line 5371 - Query word Rorus's

"Do you know," persisted the drunken doctor, ignoring the objection,
    Line 5374 - Query word ignoring

"that you are in insurrection against, aye, assaulting the statutes
    Line 5375 - Query word statutes

is 'Tuebor'--I will defend her. And, when the young men of Michigan
    Line 5379 - Query word defend

say, 'I will defend her,' they mean it. They are ready to fight for
    Line 5380 - Query word defend

her liberty and her rights and her civilization. At the first menace
    Line 5381 - Query word rights

The frightened witness slid to the side of his chair as far from his
    Line 5385 - Query word slid

prosecuting attorney again protested that Rorus had no right to
    Line 5387 - Query word protested

"Rules are for use, sir," said the doctor--"for use when they're
    Line 5390 - Query word Rules

needed. We don't need that rule now. Young man," he continued,
    Line 5391 - Query word rule

addressing William Henry Harrison, "you are liable to be arrested for
    Line 5392 - Query word addressing

addressing William Henry Harrison, "you are liable to be arrested for
    Line 5392 - Query word arrested

conspiracy, to be put in Jackson inside of stone walls, and have men
    Line 5393 - Query word conspiracy

conspiracy, to be put in Jackson inside of stone walls, and have men
    Line 5393 - Query word walls

can extract the information you want. Now, William Henry Harrison,"
    Line 5399 - Query word extract

I will keep them off. You like tobacco, don't you?"
    Line 5401 - Query word tobacco

me lake your tobacco box."
    Line 5406 - Query word lake

me lake your tobacco box."
    Line 5406 - Query word tobacco

conspicuous in the white hat handed Ratke his tobacco box. William
    Line 5409 - Query word handed

conspicuous in the white hat handed Ratke his tobacco box. William
    Line 5409 - Query word tobacco

Henry Harrison, whose scanty supply of tobacco had been partly stolen
    Line 5410 - Query word scanty

Henry Harrison, whose scanty supply of tobacco had been partly stolen
    Line 5410 - Query word tobacco

chance to get tobacco."
    Line 5415 - Query word tobacco

Thus urged, the half-wit transferred the tobacco to his pocket.
    Line 5417 - Query word tobacco

"If you will answer a few questions," said the major, "you can leave
    Line 5419 - Query word questions

buy you a pound of tobacco. Now, I would like to, know if any one
    Line 5421 - Query word tobacco

frightened again made him incapable of utterance. His terrified looks
    Line 5425 - Query word utterance

"Holmes," said the major, "hand me your tobacco box. Have a chew,
    Line 5436 - Query word tobacco

William Henry Harrison. Did the man have whiskers?"
    Line 5437 - Query word whiskers

brought a flush to the judicial countenance.
    Line 5443 - Query word flush

thrashing he ever got. You don't think he will hurt you when I am
    Line 5450 - Query word thrashing

hurt I no call Misser Green. He shake me. I call Misser Green. Misser
    Line 5460 - Query word shake

been a good witness. You must admit, Rorus, that he has told a not
    Line 5468 - Query word admit

improbable story. It is not strange that he should be compelled to do
    Line 5469 - Query word improbable

which the jury subscribed. The document stated that "The said Josiah
    Line 5481 - Query word document

means of a broad-ax, in the hands of a person or of persons unknown,
    Line 5484 - Query word person

means of a broad-ax, in the hands of a person or of persons unknown,
    Line 5484 - Query word unknown

inducing paralysis of the nerve centers, asphyxia, cerevuesisms and
    Line 5486 - Query word inducing

dipped dry the well, the water of which was bloody and loathsome as
    Line 5492 - Query word bloody

the sickening thought of the tragedy which had given it that crimson
    Line 5495 - Query word tragedy

tinge would appall him who should presume to drink from it. William
    Line 5496 - Query word presume

tinge would appall him who should presume to drink from it. William
    Line 5496 - Query word drink

the barn until another well could be dug.
    Line 5498 - Query word dug

their return to the farm, "you remind me more and more of your
    Line 5501 - Query word remind

father. When there was a general struggle to obtain a petty object,
    Line 5502 - Query word petty

CHAPTER XIV.
    Line 5509 - Query word XIV

MONTCALM FINDS DANTE INACCURATE.
    Line 5510 - Query word DANTE

MONTCALM FINDS DANTE INACCURATE.
    Line 5510 - Query word INACCURATE

slumber since the nocturnal expedition which had robbed him of
    Line 5513 - Query word expedition

slumber since the nocturnal expedition which had robbed him of
    Line 5513 - Query word robbed

Nature's restorative and had deprived Green of mortal existence. In
    Line 5514 - Query word Nature's

that state in which the reasoning faculties are yielding to the need
    Line 5515 - Query word reasoning

that state in which the reasoning faculties are yielding to the need
    Line 5515 - Query word yielding

of rest, the gradual transition from balanced consciousness to
    Line 5516 - Query word gradual

of rest, the gradual transition from balanced consciousness to
    Line 5516 - Query word transition

uncertain fancy, he thought he saw a broad, smoothly flowing river.
    Line 5517 - Query word uncertain

uncertain fancy, he thought he saw a broad, smoothly flowing river.
    Line 5517 - Query word smoothly

seemed ineffectually striving to form bridges, were familiar to him.
    Line 5519 - Query word familiar

The house in which he was born he saw for an instant before its place
    Line 5520 - Query word born

was occupied by other objects. A cool breeze came from the water,
    Line 5521 - Query word cool

bringing to him vigor and placidity. He had a strange sensation, yet
    Line 5522 - Query word sensation

trials than the fallen trees which he swept around without
    Line 5524 - Query word trials

trials than the fallen trees which he swept around without
    Line 5524 - Query word swept

inconvenience from their presence or animosity for their
    Line 5525 - Query word inconvenience

amount of perception alone, stripped of the power of action,
    Line 5529 - Query word perception

amount of perception alone, stripped of the power of action,
    Line 5529 - Query word stripped

separated from the river. Through this perception the dreamer
    Line 5530 - Query word separated

separated from the river. Through this perception the dreamer
    Line 5530 - Query word perception

retained his capacity for good or evil, his moral responsibility.
    Line 5532 - Query word responsibility

indicated by the roar of its waters, which, continually rising in
    Line 5534 - Query word waters

pitch, betokened the decline of power and the increase of violence.
    Line 5535 - Query word increase

which falls over a schoolboy's dam. Still it decreased in size until
    Line 5537 - Query word dam

which falls over a schoolboy's dam. Still it decreased in size until
    Line 5537 - Query word decreased

that measured trickling. Some time elapsed ere he could turn his head
    Line 5541 - Query word trickling

that measured trickling. Some time elapsed ere he could turn his head
    Line 5541 - Query word elapsed

and view the remains of that river, which had parted with strength,
    Line 5542 - Query word remains

and view the remains of that river, which had parted with strength,
    Line 5542 - Query word parted

and view the remains of that river, which had parted with strength,
    Line 5542 - Query word strength

beauty and serenity. At last he saw the dropping liquid, but it was
    Line 5543 - Query word dropping

man with skull cloven and with brain exposed. The frightful wound,
    Line 5546 - Query word exposed

still cognizant of current events, for shadows of thought were
    Line 5548 - Query word current

moved slowly, at others they passed with great rapidity, like the
    Line 5551 - Query word rapidity

spokes of a swiftly revolving wheel. The eyes were fixed and lurid,
    Line 5552 - Query word spokes

spokes of a swiftly revolving wheel. The eyes were fixed and lurid,
    Line 5552 - Query word swiftly

spokes of a swiftly revolving wheel. The eyes were fixed and lurid,
    Line 5552 - Query word fixed

but they were frequently darkened by clouds of meaning, the shades
    Line 5553 - Query word frequently

but they were frequently darkened by clouds of meaning, the shades
    Line 5553 - Query word meaning

but they were frequently darkened by clouds of meaning, the shades
    Line 5553 - Query word shades

which were sweeping along the brain. The face, undergoing the not
    Line 5554 - Query word undergoing

unusual exaggeration of dreams, alternately lengthened and broadened,
    Line 5555 - Query word dreams

unusual exaggeration of dreams, alternately lengthened and broadened,
    Line 5555 - Query word broadened

its minimum. The sleeper believed its hue was ghastlier than that of
    Line 5557 - Query word sleeper

and leer except when some cherished project of vengeance or finance
    Line 5563 - Query word finance

was materializing to a certainty.
    Line 5564 - Query word certainty

The repulsive object on the plank was once more hideously distorted.
    Line 5566 - Query word repulsive

seemed about to close on Montcalm, who inert and helpless, dreaded
    Line 5568 - Query word dreaded

consequences. Strenuously he tried to escape. Not a muscle would
    Line 5573 - Query word consequences

consequences. Strenuously he tried to escape. Not a muscle would
    Line 5573 - Query word tried

consequences. Strenuously he tried to escape. Not a muscle would
    Line 5573 - Query word muscle

contract to help him in his emergency. Finally his will-power
    Line 5574 - Query word Finally

prevailed and he was able to flee. Leaving the cellar, he entered the
    Line 5575 - Query word flee

well came the clamor of pursuit, and after him sprang a dozen men. He
    Line 5577 - Query word clamor

vast building. He raced from room to room, from each of which,
    Line 5580 - Query word vast

sustaining a sharp conflict, he emerged, invariably frightened and
    Line 5581 - Query word conflict

invariably unhurt. His desperate defense was not prompted by courage,
    Line 5582 - Query word prompted

for he had but one desire, that of finding safety at whatever cost.
    Line 5583 - Query word safety

stricken down, returned each time to the attack, not in the least
    Line 5585 - Query word stricken

him to a corner from which he could not retreat. His guard was beaten
    Line 5587 - Query word beaten

down, and he was at the mercy of his pitiless enemies. They
    Line 5588 - Query word mercy

down, and he was at the mercy of his pitiless enemies. They
    Line 5588 - Query word enemies

With a gigantic leap he crashed through the wall and trod the solid
    Line 5592 - Query word trod

earth. Given on this footing an unnatural speed, he swept over
    Line 5593 - Query word speed

earth. Given on this footing an unnatural speed, he swept over
    Line 5593 - Query word swept

fields, fences and woods, barely treading the ground and propelling
    Line 5594 - Query word fences

pursuers in sight or hearing, but fearful of the approach, he would
    Line 5596 - Query word fearful

Before him was the great swamp, and his route was the causeway east
    Line 5599 - Query word causeway

the tamaracks grew large and tall, when to his inexpressible horror
    Line 5601 - Query word grew

Archer arose from the bushes, pointed a revolver at him and fired.
    Line 5602 - Query word revolver

Archer arose from the bushes, pointed a revolver at him and fired.
    Line 5602 - Query word fired

The shot at once robbed him of his great speed, and in his face blew
    Line 5603 - Query word robbed

The shot at once robbed him of his great speed, and in his face blew
    Line 5603 - Query word speed

pursuers again drew new. With savage gesticulations and yells of
    Line 5605 - Query word yells

triumph the pressed about him. In the intensity of despair he felt
    Line 5606 - Query word triumph

triumph the pressed about him. In the intensity of despair he felt
    Line 5606 - Query word pressed

triumph the pressed about him. In the intensity of despair he felt
    Line 5606 - Query word intensity

that he could neither flee nor fight. Helplessly he looked aloft and
    Line 5607 - Query word flee

that he could neither flee nor fight. Helplessly he looked aloft and
    Line 5607 - Query word Helplessly

flitted to his rescue, and interposing its bright wings, parried the
    Line 5610 - Query word rescue

strength, he did not injure those who were endeavoring to kill the
    Line 5614 - Query word strength

wretch who had secured his intervention. Montcalm, confident in the
    Line 5615 - Query word confident

will and ability of this being to protect him, imploringly clutched
    Line 5616 - Query word protect

together, propelled by those bright wings, hand in hand, they sped
    Line 5618 - Query word propelled

the horizontal and the vertical. Terrestrial objects, trees, rivers,
    Line 5620 - Query word horizontal

aware that his feet now and then met a substance which, though not
    Line 5626 - Query word aware

solid, was more tangible than air. His footing grew firmer. He was
    Line 5627 - Query word grew

wanting, where irregularly formed bodies cast shadows along the
    Line 5629 - Query word cast

uneven surface. A dull red glare, hovering over a strip of the
    Line 5630 - Query word dull

unfamiliar sight. Journeying on, they came to a locality which was
    Line 5633 - Query word unfamiliar

unfamiliar sight. Journeying on, they came to a locality which was
    Line 5633 - Query word locality

entirely occupied by somber rocks piled in mountain-like masses by
    Line 5634 - Query word masses

convulsions of the sub-strata. In the distance a lurid flame shot up
    Line 5635 - Query word flame

increased in intensity. Awe-stricken, Montcalm paused. Gladly would
    Line 5638 - Query word intensity

increased in intensity. Awe-stricken, Montcalm paused. Gladly would
    Line 5638 - Query word stricken

increased in intensity. Awe-stricken, Montcalm paused. Gladly would
    Line 5638 - Query word Gladly

and he was unable to withdraw it. At the same moment the strange
    Line 5641 - Query word withdraw

changed from benignity to diabolical ugliness and was dark and stern
    Line 5644 - Query word stern

as the fire-blackened rocks around him. Agonized beyond measure,
    Line 5645 - Query word blackened

shrinking from his repulsive master and fearfully awaiting the awful
    Line 5648 - Query word repulsive

shrinking from his repulsive master and fearfully awaiting the awful
    Line 5648 - Query word awaiting

flame which had now neared him, he heard, repeated, a long shrill
    Line 5649 - Query word flame

was dying away. It was some minutes before he comprehended the
    Line 5653 - Query word comprehended

unreality of his dream, and even after it was apparent to him, he
    Line 5654 - Query word dream

unreality of his dream, and even after it was apparent to him, he
    Line 5654 - Query word apparent

frequently wondered if it were really a delusion. Day had not yet
    Line 5655 - Query word frequently

frequently wondered if it were really a delusion. Day had not yet
    Line 5655 - Query word wondered

frequently wondered if it were really a delusion. Day had not yet
    Line 5655 - Query word really

The plaster on the walls had cracked, leaving many seams which an
    Line 5660 - Query word walls

The plaster on the walls had cracked, leaving many seams which an
    Line 5660 - Query word cracked

unemployed imagination might construe to represent definite shapes.
    Line 5661 - Query word represent

Montcalm's gaze followed one of these lines as, making a number of
    Line 5662 - Query word gaze

curves, it formed a grotesque resemblance to a man's head. Uneasily
    Line 5663 - Query word curves

in his dream.
    Line 5666 - Query word dream

astir about the place. Wearily he opened a barn door and climbing a
    Line 5676 - Query word astir

stationary ladder, flung himself on the haymow. Sleep was for him
    Line 5677 - Query word stationary

barnyard. Not wishing to be discovered in the loft, he climbed down
    Line 5686 - Query word loft

reminded him of the shot which had stopped his flight in the swamp.
    Line 5688 - Query word reminded

Breakfast was to him a severe trial. By dint of great exertion he
    Line 5690 - Query word trial

managed to invent a few gay remarks and to deliver them in a
    Line 5691 - Query word managed

prolonged, and he relapsed again into silence.
    Line 5693 - Query word prolonged

matter," said Ratke, feeling in spite of his explanation that he was
    Line 5705 - Query word explanation

in business to-day. Durgenson has written me that he must have $4,000
    Line 5707 - Query word written

had not exhibited for days. "He wants to get your entire property.
    Line 5712 - Query word exhibited

had not exhibited for days. "He wants to get your entire property.
    Line 5712 - Query word entire

"That is what you will do," rejoined Montcalm, "and it will avail you
    Line 5719 - Query word avail

nothing. If you do not pay your indebtedness on the day it is due,
    Line 5720 - Query word due

the farm belongs to Durgenson. Pay all you owe him, if you pay
    Line 5721 - Query word belongs

anything. He does not want it paid. He is longing to get every dollar
    Line 5722 - Query word longing

discharge the debt. The shark in whose clutches you have fallen will
    Line 5724 - Query word discharge

discharge the debt. The shark in whose clutches you have fallen will
    Line 5724 - Query word clutches

show you no mercy until the shark of the sea returns a man unharmed
    Line 5725 - Query word mercy

"God forgive me, I did!" exclaimed Montcalm bitterly. "But all is not
    Line 5731 - Query word bitterly

ruined now. You have a hundred and sixty acres of good land. That
    Line 5732 - Query word ruined

ruined now. You have a hundred and sixty acres of good land. That
    Line 5732 - Query word acres

Montcalm purposely strolled near a group of the hired men, and Ratke,
    Line 5737 - Query word group

unable to impart confidences, returned to the house. Had the gloomy
    Line 5738 - Query word gloomy

It was with dread that he approached the pond. Its edge had retreated
    Line 5743 - Query word dread

It was with dread that he approached the pond. Its edge had retreated
    Line 5743 - Query word pond

safety. Montcalm's hair arose as he saw a leech on the muddy bottom
    Line 5747 - Query word safety

safety. Montcalm's hair arose as he saw a leech on the muddy bottom
    Line 5747 - Query word leech

safety. Montcalm's hair arose as he saw a leech on the muddy bottom
    Line 5747 - Query word muddy

believing that the pond and its vicinity was fit only for the
    Line 5749 - Query word pond

habitation of devils. He put his hand inside the hollow tree and drew
    Line 5750 - Query word devils

their blood-stains. He was not actuated by a love of his ill-acquired
    Line 5753 - Query word acquired

swamp. In the gradual descent he found a spring, and stooping, he
    Line 5758 - Query word gradual

swamp. In the gradual descent he found a spring, and stooping, he
    Line 5758 - Query word descent

swamp. In the gradual descent he found a spring, and stooping, he
    Line 5758 - Query word stooping

took a cool draught and from it bathed his face and head. After being
    Line 5759 - Query word cool

thus invigorated, he resumed his walk in better spirits. From the
    Line 5760 - Query word resumed

thus invigorated, he resumed his walk in better spirits. From the
    Line 5760 - Query word spirits

brook. The limbs reached nearly across the channel; so that the
    Line 5765 - Query word channel

passage. The current below was rapid. Above it moved slowly, halting
    Line 5767 - Query word current

passage. The current below was rapid. Above it moved slowly, halting
    Line 5767 - Query word rapid

at the tree-top where a partial dam of leaves, sticks and scum was
    Line 5768 - Query word dam

the bottom and the sides of the channel. Whirled above by the eddies,
    Line 5770 - Query word sides

the bottom and the sides of the channel. Whirled above by the eddies,
    Line 5770 - Query word channel

small objects were passed into a peaceful bay formed by the tree-top
    Line 5771 - Query word peaceful

small objects were passed into a peaceful bay formed by the tree-top
    Line 5771 - Query word bay

and the bank or swept into the turbulent rapids beyond. Montcalm
    Line 5772 - Query word bank

and the bank or swept into the turbulent rapids beyond. Montcalm
    Line 5772 - Query word swept

became impressed with the idea that the placid bay held safety and
    Line 5773 - Query word idea

became impressed with the idea that the placid bay held safety and
    Line 5773 - Query word bay

became impressed with the idea that the placid bay held safety and
    Line 5773 - Query word safety

that in the rapid current beyond was destruction. Every piece of bark
    Line 5774 - Query word rapid

that in the rapid current beyond was destruction. Every piece of bark
    Line 5774 - Query word current

which was brought by the rivulet he watched to ascertain its fate. He
    Line 5775 - Query word fate

was glad when one reached the smooth haven, disappointed when another
    Line 5776 - Query word smooth

swept around the obstruction and was hurried to its doom. By degrees
    Line 5777 - Query word swept

he came to regard each floating substance as a representation of
    Line 5778 - Query word regard

himself, his deeds, his chance of preservation.
    Line 5779 - Query word deeds

An ant crawled down an overhanging bush which almost touched the
    Line 5781 - Query word bush

An ant crawled down an overhanging bush which almost touched the
    Line 5781 - Query word touched

balance, but as it whirled to ascend, struck by a puff of wind, it
    Line 5783 - Query word balance

fell. Montcalm viewed its struggles with interest, for it reminded
    Line 5784 - Query word struggles

fell. Montcalm viewed its struggles with interest, for it reminded
    Line 5784 - Query word reminded

borne down the stream of fatality. He reflected that he could no more
    Line 5786 - Query word fatality

surrounded than the poor insect could rise above the whirlpools and
    Line 5788 - Query word insect

surrounded than the poor insect could rise above the whirlpools and
    Line 5788 - Query word rise

misfortune. It had realized the danger and hovered over it, believing
    Line 5790 - Query word misfortune

misfortune. It had realized the danger and hovered over it, believing
    Line 5790 - Query word realized

flowed the river into which he had leaped, but he had thought that he
    Line 5792 - Query word leaped

descended to the abyss of eternal woe, its sheet of falling water,
    Line 5795 - Query word descended

descended to the abyss of eternal woe, its sheet of falling water,
    Line 5795 - Query word woe

swept on by the angry waves, it perished, he would have no prospect
    Line 5798 - Query word swept

swept on by the angry waves, it perished, he would have no prospect
    Line 5798 - Query word angry

of avoiding a similar fate. Anxiously he awaited the result on which
    Line 5799 - Query word similar

of avoiding a similar fate. Anxiously he awaited the result on which
    Line 5799 - Query word fate

The ant, struggling, floated toward the rapids. The movement,
    Line 5802 - Query word struggling

The ant, struggling, floated toward the rapids. The movement,
    Line 5802 - Query word floated

right bank, where it lay hesitating between the shore and the stream.
    Line 5804 - Query word bank

It again circled, and entering the current, was carried toward the
    Line 5805 - Query word current

point of a limb which separated the still and the agitated waters.
    Line 5806 - Query word separated

point of a limb which separated the still and the agitated waters.
    Line 5806 - Query word agitated

point of a limb which separated the still and the agitated waters.
    Line 5806 - Query word waters

rushing waves. Montcalm was seized with a resolve to rescue the
    Line 5808 - Query word rescue

the stick. Not a trace could he find of the insect whose fate he had
    Line 5812 - Query word insect

the stick. Not a trace could he find of the insect whose fate he had
    Line 5812 - Query word fate

wore a wide-brimmed straw hat and a suit of plaid clothes, with a
    Line 5820 - Query word wide

sack coat which fitted tightly his full muscular figure. "You don't
    Line 5821 - Query word fitted

sack coat which fitted tightly his full muscular figure. "You don't
    Line 5821 - Query word muscular

deal nights. I think I will leave the locality soon. I want sleep and
    Line 5827 - Query word nights

deal nights. I think I will leave the locality soon. I want sleep and
    Line 5827 - Query word locality

worked harder than people have any idea of. Now, I'll bet something
    Line 5831 - Query word harder

worked harder than people have any idea of. Now, I'll bet something
    Line 5831 - Query word idea

handsome you can tell who hit old Green."
    Line 5832 - Query word handsome

ashamed to take a dollar. I once owned a conscience, but you never
    Line 5836 - Query word owned

ashamed to take a dollar. I once owned a conscience, but you never
    Line 5836 - Query word conscience

"Oh, there's no use getting in a pet, Trace," responded Durgenson
    Line 5839 - Query word pet

money. That ought to put you in better humor. Suppose we settle
    Line 5841 - Query word settle

the market where you are dealing in such property. You have to
    Line 5854 - Query word dealing

the planning for your enterprises and you have reaped the benefits.
    Line 5859 - Query word enterprises

the planning for your enterprises and you have reaped the benefits.
    Line 5859 - Query word reaped

When I told you of the oat scheme, you agreed to pay me well for the
    Line 5860 - Query word oat

expect it will pay."
    Line 5867 - Query word expect

Take the old farm if you will, but let him have that fragment of his
    Line 5873 - Query word fragment

to let him go after he is once in my hand. You helped to catch him
    Line 5877 - Query word helped

"So I did," replied Montcalm, "and I have a right to insist that part
    Line 5880 - Query word insist

hundred, and then you'll be satisfied. The oat business, though, was
    Line 5891 - Query word oat

profitable. It was well got up, too. The name was worth a fortune. If
    Line 5892 - Query word fortune

used to have any such compunctions. There's a man in the graveyard
    Line 5908 - Query word graveyard

"Are you the one to twit me of vice?" angrily cried Montcalm. "You
    Line 5912 - Query word angrily

knew you, I was an innocent boy, determined to make an honest man, I
    Line 5914 - Query word innocent

professions of honesty and of concern for the welfare of others. In
    Line 5921 - Query word concern

would still be drunk. From selling whisky, you lured me to swindling.
    Line 5924 - Query word selling

the cant of hypocrites or the practice of fools, that the only wisdom
    Line 5926 - Query word practice

is in looking to self-gain regardless of right or wrong. When you had
    Line 5927 - Query word gain

schooled me well in swindling, you drilled me in horse-stealing,
    Line 5928 - Query word stealing

whose hand was raised aloft, whose face was deadly pale, and whose
    Line 5935 - Query word pale

still higher. "You have ruined me and are laughing at me for it. Why
    Line 5942 - Query word ruined

evil I have done, I would blow out my brains! If shooting you would
    Line 5944 - Query word brains

"For God's sake. Trace," Durgenson said, "don't act so! You are
    Line 5947 - Query word God's

"For God's sake. Trace," Durgenson said, "don't act so! You are
    Line 5947 - Query word sake

crazy. What do you mean by saying you have been to hell?"
    Line 5948 - Query word crazy

"Do you intimate that I lie?" asked Montcalm fiercely.
    Line 5950 - Query word intimate

well the final home of devils. You had better leave me. There is no
    Line 5957 - Query word final

well the final home of devils. You had better leave me. There is no
    Line 5957 - Query word devils

across the brook. "You don't know who I can get to do the job I spoke
    Line 5961 - Query word job

change in his hitherto devoted helper. Montcalm, exhausted in his
    Line 5967 - Query word helper

change in his hitherto devoted helper. Montcalm, exhausted in his
    Line 5967 - Query word exhausted

of a tree. When he had been seated a few minutes, he separated a
    Line 5969 - Query word separated

letter from a bundle of papers in his pocket. It was written in a
    Line 5970 - Query word written

    My Son Traceworth:
    Line 5976 - Query word Traceworth

    provisions enough. All I need now is to
    Line 5986 - Query word provisions

    hear from my boy. I pray for you every day, Traceworth,
    Line 5987 - Query word Traceworth

Montcalm put the letter with the papers into his pocket. Gloomily he
    Line 5994 - Query word Gloomily

while body and mind were being eaten away by the canker of remorse.
    Line 5997 - Query word canker

CHAPTER XV.
    Line 6000 - Query word XV

IVANHOE CRITICISED BY A MASTER.
    Line 6001 - Query word IVANHOE

IVANHOE CRITICISED BY A MASTER.
    Line 6001 - Query word CRITICISED

To the delight of the farmers there were indications of rain. Across
    Line 6003 - Query word delight

To the delight of the farmers there were indications of rain. Across
    Line 6003 - Query word indications

the sky was drawn a curtain of cloud, which was uniform in
    Line 6004 - Query word sky

the sky was drawn a curtain of cloud, which was uniform in
    Line 6004 - Query word curtain

appearance, except where it was slightly varied in shade by different
    Line 6005 - Query word slightly

appearance, except where it was slightly varied in shade by different
    Line 6005 - Query word shade

degrees of density. From it fell a fine mist, which was welcomed as
    Line 6006 - Query word welcomed

fellow laborers for a visit.
    Line 6012 - Query word laborers

"Ivanhoe," replied John. "Did you ever read it?"
    Line 6017 - Query word Ivanhoe

on it. I couldn't make no sense out o'the thing."
    Line 6020 - Query word o'the

nothin'. There was this Iverhoe, he was a slow ole genius, took him
    Line 6025 - Query word slow

funniest way o' fightin' you ever heerd of. They had spears, just
    Line 6029 - Query word funniest

like fish spears, only they didn't have but one tine. They couldn't
    Line 6030 - Query word fish

lickety-larrup. But I've got the dandy book.
    Line 6032 - Query word dandy

"'One-eyed Zeke,'" replied Thompson. "This Zeke, he was death on the
    Line 6036 - Query word eyed

Injuns. He'd make game of all of 'em he got in sight of. He'd shoot
    Line 6037 - Query word He'd

Injuns. He'd make game of all of 'em he got in sight of. He'd shoot
    Line 6037 - Query word He'd

off his rifle, an' then he'd take a revolver in each hand. There
    Line 6038 - Query word he'd

off his rifle, an' then he'd take a revolver in each hand. There
    Line 6038 - Query word revolver

all but Zeke. Oh, that Zeke, he was a tearer! He'd killed more'n
    Line 6046 - Query word He'd

all but Zeke. Oh, that Zeke, he was a tearer! He'd killed more'n
    Line 6046 - Query word more'n

Unable to pursue his reading in quiet, John descended to the ground
    Line 6049 - Query word descended

floor. The outside door opened and in walked Panicky.
    Line 6050 - Query word outside

a while a place where they don't appreciate me. But that's what a
    Line 6057 - Query word appreciate

benefactor of his race must expect. They're persecuted and cursed by
    Line 6058 - Query word benefactor

benefactor of his race must expect. They're persecuted and cursed by
    Line 6058 - Query word expect

satchels, trying to benefit humanity. When I'm dead and gone, folks
    Line 6062 - Query word humanity

a real one. Sometimes they come snides on us, fix 'em up bogus, Like
    Line 6066 - Query word fix

"Vell," answered Wingscheut, "tat's for you to fint out if you can,
    Line 6075 - Query word tat's

I'll tell for fife tollars, unt you can sell it to chust as many
    Line 6076 - Query word tollars

"Got a touch of summer complaint, have you?" asked Panicky,
    Line 6079 - Query word complaint

addressing Sheppard.
    Line 6080 - Query word addressing

"John," said Daggett, "get your fiddle and play us a tune. I want to
    Line 6090 - Query word tune

shake my feet."
    Line 6091 - Query word shake

John brought down a recently purchased violin and played a lively
    Line 6093 - Query word purchased

John brought down a recently purchased violin and played a lively
    Line 6093 - Query word played

rest of the boys will. If you'll step in there and dance a jig, we'll
    Line 6098 - Query word dance

the middle of the room and began to dance a quickstep while John
    Line 6103 - Query word dance

played. The music was quickened. Daggett was the first who failed to
    Line 6104 - Query word played

keep pace with the rapid notes. Panicky's superiority over his rival
    Line 6105 - Query word pace

keep pace with the rapid notes. Panicky's superiority over his rival
    Line 6105 - Query word rapid

was now unquestioned. His body was nearly stationary, but his feet
    Line 6106 - Query word stationary

and legs twisted and turned like those of a jumping-jack; and from
    Line 6107 - Query word twisted

underneath them came a clatter which was almost like the rattle of a
    Line 6108 - Query word clatter

underneath them came a clatter which was almost like the rattle of a
    Line 6108 - Query word rattle

not been still further increased by John. As it was, he missed a few
    Line 6110 - Query word missed

entangled, passed to the outside of the circle.
    Line 6112 - Query word outside

entangled, passed to the outside of the circle.
    Line 6112 - Query word circle

"He's the best player I ever heard but one, and he was a foreigner,"
    Line 6114 - Query word player

"He won't tell any one that," replied Daggett. "It's queer, too. I
    Line 6117 - Query word queer

That night John did his chores early. He was in the parlor before
    Line 6121 - Query word early

How strong were his hopes, what an unwonted confidence he had in the
    Line 6123 - Query word unwonted

future as he entered the room and she greeted him with a smile.
    Line 6124 - Query word greeted

Despite her kind welcome he dreaded to broach the subject for which
    Line 6125 - Query word Despite

Despite her kind welcome he dreaded to broach the subject for which
    Line 6125 - Query word welcome

Despite her kind welcome he dreaded to broach the subject for which
    Line 6125 - Query word dreaded

doubtful, and his voice grew so unsteady that he dared not ask his
    Line 6127 - Query word doubtful

doubtful, and his voice grew so unsteady that he dared not ask his
    Line 6127 - Query word grew

Ratke opened the door and taking a seat beside him, began to discuss
    Line 6129 - Query word discuss

troublesome philosopher. Ratke, exhausting the first subject,
    Line 6133 - Query word troublesome

To one of the philosopher's questions which he had imperfectly
    Line 6136 - Query word questions

understood, John ventured an affirmative answer.
    Line 6137 - Query word ventured

understood, John ventured an affirmative answer.
    Line 6137 - Query word affirmative

wave, but I cannot understand its right to claim identity, when it
    Line 6140 - Query word wave

altered in composition. A political movement begins. Its authors die
    Line 6143 - Query word political

altered in composition. A political movement begins. Its authors die
    Line 6143 - Query word begins

antagonistic to theirs. The founders advocated thrift, economy,
    Line 6145 - Query word economy

simplicity and progress; the followers advocate useless offices, vast
    Line 6146 - Query word vast

Why should we call this miserable relic the old party, when it has
    Line 6150 - Query word relic

preserved its being neither in men nor in principles, only in name?
    Line 6151 - Query word preserved

In the physical world this is possible only from a highly burnished
    Line 6154 - Query word highly

reflection increases as the square root of the intellectual vigor
    Line 6156 - Query word intellectual

decreases. No offense is intended, John. Your age and the
    Line 6157 - Query word offense

circumstances in which you are placed make the rule not applicable to
    Line 6158 - Query word rule

you. No doubt you have heard enough about the wave and you want now
    Line 6159 - Query word wave

With this good-natured conclusion the major rose and, taking a book
    Line 6162 - Query word natured

from the library, went to the dining-room, where he was obliged to
    Line 6163 - Query word library

hear a harangue by Mrs. Grippin on the scarcity of wood.
    Line 6164 - Query word harangue

John had fancied that when his employer left, he would have no
    Line 6166 - Query word fancied

difficulty in stating the nature of his errand; but when he was alone
    Line 6167 - Query word stating

to perform his mission at once had it not been for another request in
    Line 6169 - Query word request

On this account he broached topics which were foreign to the theme
    Line 6172 - Query word broached

On this account he broached topics which were foreign to the theme
    Line 6172 - Query word theme

uppermost in his thoughts. Finally he delivered this unscientific
    Line 6173 - Query word Finally

uppermost in his thoughts. Finally he delivered this unscientific
    Line 6173 - Query word delivered

preliminary, "I am going to the concert at Oakville to morrow night."
    Line 6174 - Query word morrow

local affair, I believe. Still, it will be quite interesting. They,
    Line 6177 - Query word interesting

have some good singers there."
    Line 6178 - Query word singers

"I would like to have you go," said John, trying to assume a careless
    Line 6180 - Query word assume

"I would like to have you go," said John, trying to assume a careless
    Line 6180 - Query word careless

manner. "Will you be at home to-morrow night?"
    Line 6181 - Query word morrow

"and I believe I shall accept your invitation."
    Line 6184 - Query word invitation

expectations are not to be depended upon. That prospect on which I
    Line 6197 - Query word depended

He tried to keep warmth from his words and tones that they might not
    Line 6200 - Query word tried

betray his longing to indulge in passionate utterance, utterance
    Line 6201 - Query word longing

betray his longing to indulge in passionate utterance, utterance
    Line 6201 - Query word utterance

betray his longing to indulge in passionate utterance, utterance
    Line 6201 - Query word utterance

which, he thought, would warn Manie of the depth of his feeling and
    Line 6202 - Query word depth

and saw a glance which appeared to contain encouragement, but which
    Line 6205 - Query word glance

and saw a glance which appeared to contain encouragement, but which
    Line 6205 - Query word contain

he could not analyze with certainty. An apprehension seized him that
    Line 6206 - Query word analyze

he could not analyze with certainty. An apprehension seized him that
    Line 6206 - Query word certainty

start on a long journey, he felt a desire to bid her a second and
    Line 6210 - Query word journey

not promise a satisfactory result. He was not confident. He shut his
    Line 6216 - Query word confident

eyes to the consequences, while a dread of failure was using its
    Line 6217 - Query word consequences

eyes to the consequences, while a dread of failure was using its
    Line 6217 - Query word dread

eyes to the consequences, while a dread of failure was using its
    Line 6217 - Query word failure

"There is a little matter I meant to have spoken to you about before.
    Line 6222 - Query word spoken

"I cannot now," responded John, "I have an engagement."
    Line 6225 - Query word engagement

"Any time to-morrow," replied John, hastening to the club-house.
    Line 6229 - Query word morrow

CHAPTER XVI.
    Line 6247 - Query word XVI

MRS. BOYLE'S HOUSE.
    Line 6248 - Query word BOYLE'S

was loudly greeted by the dogs. They were, however, recalled by
    Line 6251 - Query word greeted

was loudly greeted by the dogs. They were, however, recalled by
    Line 6251 - Query word recalled

Philetus, for an infuriated Irishman had lately hurled a club with
    Line 6252 - Query word lately

such force and precision that the larger pup had been permanently
    Line 6253 - Query word pup

such force and precision that the larger pup had been permanently
    Line 6253 - Query word permanently

darkness the great tamaracks, which were near the center of the
    Line 6255 - Query word darkness

causeway, could not be separately distinguished, but their masses
    Line 6256 - Query word causeway

causeway, could not be separately distinguished, but their masses
    Line 6256 - Query word masses

cast a gloomy shade over the road and were easily discerned even
    Line 6257 - Query word cast

cast a gloomy shade over the road and were easily discerned even
    Line 6257 - Query word gloomy

cast a gloomy shade over the road and were easily discerned even
    Line 6257 - Query word shade

against the clouded sky.
    Line 6258 - Query word sky

off your hat and stay awhile."
    Line 6264 - Query word awhile

"Oh, now you better come in," insisted Julia, "It's just as cheap to
    Line 6268 - Query word insisted

"Can you tell me the way to Mrs. Boyle's?" asked John.
    Line 6273 - Query word Boyle's

"Why, it's too dark to git to Mrs. Boyle's," said Julia. "Of course
    Line 6275 - Query word Boyle's

you go past two houses and you'll come to a gate. It's a funny gate,
    Line 6279 - Query word past

there's a box, and the box has got some big stones in it. You'd think
    Line 6282 - Query word stones

strike a path. That'll take you to Mrs. Boyle's. But you'll git sick
    Line 6287 - Query word Boyle's

"It is impossible," replied John. "I promised to go to Mrs. Boyle's.
    Line 6291 - Query word Boyle's

description you gave. I do not want you to take any such trouble."
    Line 6298 - Query word description

"No," said John firmly, "I would rather go alone."
    Line 6302 - Query word firmly

"Go it, devil," cried Julia angrily. "Start your stumps. Don't you
    Line 6304 - Query word angrily

"Go it, devil," cried Julia angrily. "Start your stumps. Don't you
    Line 6304 - Query word stumps

curved to the eastward. He reached the end of the road, which bent to
    Line 6309 - Query word curved

found it, as she had said, easy to open. There was comparatively
    Line 6312 - Query word comparatively

little friction at the hinges, and the ponderous beam was so balanced
    Line 6313 - Query word hinges

by the end and box of heavy stones that it did not require lifting.
    Line 6314 - Query word stones

by the end and box of heavy stones that it did not require lifting.
    Line 6314 - Query word require

The path went with many variations to the stake and rider fence,
    Line 6315 - Query word variations

Evidently it had been knocked down by careless pedestrians and
    Line 6318 - Query word careless

rebuilt by the owner of the land in such a manner as to prevent all
    Line 6319 - Query word owner

farther side of which glimmered a light. His troubles were not yet
    Line 6323 - Query word glimmered

which caught in his clothes and scratched his face and hands. As he
    Line 6325 - Query word scratched

descended the rise of ground at the border of the woods, the light
    Line 6326 - Query word descended

descended the rise of ground at the border of the woods, the light
    Line 6326 - Query word rise

disappeared, and he groped without guidance to gain his destination.
    Line 6327 - Query word groped

disappeared, and he groped without guidance to gain his destination.
    Line 6327 - Query word gain

disappeared, and he groped without guidance to gain his destination.
    Line 6327 - Query word destination

out of his way. Congratulating himself that he had escaped with so
    Line 6329 - Query word Congratulating

The cottage into which John stepped was small and humble, but
    Line 6333 - Query word humble

at once kitchen and parlor, was a safe with scalloped newspapers
    Line 6335 - Query word newspapers

on which rested some curious stones and a few books. The walls were
    Line 6337 - Query word rested

on which rested some curious stones and a few books. The walls were
    Line 6337 - Query word stones

on which rested some curious stones and a few books. The walls were
    Line 6337 - Query word walls

covered with paper, and from them were suspended pictures of little
    Line 6338 - Query word pictures

art, too long drawn to be called new, and too modern to be ranked as
    Line 6339 - Query word modern

antiquities. That a person of Christian principles had assisted in
    Line 6340 - Query word person

antiquities. That a person of Christian principles had assisted in
    Line 6340 - Query word Christian

furnishing the house was indicated by two Bibles, some Sabbath school
    Line 6341 - Query word Bibles

short, bristling mustache, a sullen, resolute face, and eyes which
    Line 6346 - Query word resolute

the gaze of others resulted not from timidity, but from a desire to
    Line 6348 - Query word gaze

the gaze of others resulted not from timidity, but from a desire to
    Line 6348 - Query word resulted

been contradicted by his every appearance. The lamp on the table was
    Line 6351 - Query word contradicted

surrounded by millers, which darted against it, but were prevented by
    Line 6352 - Query word prevented

the chimney from reaching the flame. The young man busied himself by
    Line 6353 - Query word chimney

the chimney from reaching the flame. The young man busied himself by
    Line 6353 - Query word flame

struggles with the keenest interest. When Durgenson introduced him,
    Line 6355 - Query word struggles

struggles with the keenest interest. When Durgenson introduced him,
    Line 6355 - Query word keenest

struggles with the keenest interest. When Durgenson introduced him,
    Line 6355 - Query word introduced

he shook Wrengells hand, still averting his eyes, and immediately
    Line 6356 - Query word shook

resumed his occupation of catching millers.
    Line 6357 - Query word resumed

way from the description you gave me. I inquired at a house after I
    Line 6364 - Query word description

"Is that so?" asked Durgenson. "Where did you inquire?"
    Line 6367 - Query word inquire

asked the way to Mrs. Boyle's. I hope it did no damage."
    Line 6370 - Query word Boyle's

don't advertise it. But probably no one will mistrust what you came
    Line 6373 - Query word mistrust

I know it. I've had my eye on you for quite a while. I can tell
    Line 6385 - Query word eye

would guess the weight of a steer almost to a pound notch. But I
    Line 6388 - Query word notch

wouldn't board that fellow for all he'd do. He'd get drunk, and then
    Line 6389 - Query word he'd

wouldn't board that fellow for all he'd do. He'd get drunk, and then
    Line 6389 - Query word He'd

he'd either pay so much that I lost, or offer so little that the
    Line 6390 - Query word he'd

I had another hand that was steady and a good buyer, but he was
    Line 6392 - Query word steady

"I have a course of study which I am very anxious to finish," said
    Line 6396 - Query word study

John. "I really ought not to give my attention to new subjects now.
    Line 6397 - Query word really

first as I give an experienced hand. I wouldn't venture over fifty
    Line 6402 - Query word experienced

dollars a month and expenses for the first three months. After that,
    Line 6403 - Query word months

if I kept you at all, I could bid up to seventy-five or a hundred.
    Line 6404 - Query word seventy

"Why I'm so careful," explained Durgenson, "Pease and I have quite a
    Line 6415 - Query word Pease

a car-load of horses to put in here, and I mean to get them before he
    Line 6420 - Query word car

Glancing past the cattle-buyer, John saw an ugly shadow on the wall.
    Line 6423 - Query word Glancing

Glancing past the cattle-buyer, John saw an ugly shadow on the wall.
    Line 6423 - Query word past

Glancing past the cattle-buyer, John saw an ugly shadow on the wall.
    Line 6423 - Query word shadow

It was the head of a man with an abnormally large nose and a savage,
    Line 6424 - Query word nose

repulsive countenance. The exaggerated shape was made by the rays of
    Line 6425 - Query word repulsive

the lamp falling on the face of young Boyle, who had finished his
    Line 6426 - Query word Boyle

insect butchery and was sitting still and silent by the table. From
    Line 6427 - Query word insect

which shines from the orb of an excited cat. John was momentarily
    Line 6429 - Query word shines

impressed by the figure on the wall and the sullen behavior of the
    Line 6430 - Query word behavior

his direct gaze.
    Line 6432 - Query word gaze

"What," asked John, "practice an art before learning the theory? You
    Line 6438 - Query word practice

"What," asked John, "practice an art before learning the theory? You
    Line 6438 - Query word learning

"What," asked John, "practice an art before learning the theory? You
    Line 6438 - Query word theory

opportunity to improve. If you can't afford to spend the time, I'll
    Line 6442 - Query word afford

"Yes," answered young Boyle.
    Line 6447 - Query word Boyle

Young Boyle rushed at it, struck it down with a narrow piece of thin
    Line 6456 - Query word Boyle

benevolent face he had ever seen. She appeared astonished at finding
    Line 6463 - Query word astonished

so many occupants in the house, and looked from John to Durgenson as
    Line 6464 - Query word occupants

"What are you here for?" growled young Boyle, with an oath. "I
    Line 6467 - Query word Boyle

I have been up two nights in succession, and I can rest better here
    Line 6472 - Query word nights

I have been up two nights in succession, and I can rest better here
    Line 6472 - Query word succession

"I'd have stayed till mornin' an' got my breakfast," said Boyle.
    Line 6475 - Query word mornin

"I'd have stayed till mornin' an' got my breakfast," said Boyle.
    Line 6475 - Query word Boyle

"I am Mrs. Boyle," said the woman, "We met at Chicago after the death
    Line 6484 - Query word Boyle

of Mr. and Mrs. Lehmann. Perhaps you will remember that Mr. Boyle and
    Line 6485 - Query word Boyle

"Oh, yes," answered Durgenson, with a show of uneasiness, "It was so
    Line 6488 - Query word uneasiness

long ago I wouldn't have recognized you if you hadn't spoken about
    Line 6489 - Query word spoken

"And this young man," said Mrs. Boyle, "I have never met him."
    Line 6492 - Query word Boyle

John wondered that so refined a lady should have so brutal a son. It
    Line 6496 - Query word wondered

John wondered that so refined a lady should have so brutal a son. It
    Line 6496 - Query word refined

that, courteous as she had seemed, she was allowing her curiosity to
    Line 6498 - Query word allowing

master her civility.
    Line 6499 - Query word civility

"That looks like a violin case," said Mrs. Boyle. "Do you play, Mr.
    Line 6501 - Query word Boyle

"I have had some practice on that instrument," replied John.
    Line 6504 - Query word practice

"I wish you would play for us," said Mrs. Boyle, "I like to hear
    Line 6506 - Query word Boyle

The lady's interest in John apparently increased as she listened to
    Line 6509 - Query word lady's

the strains of the violin. Her eyes brightened; the kindly expression
    Line 6510 - Query word strains

on her face was intensified to a degree which reached regard and
    Line 6511 - Query word regard

recollecting his performance in the club-house.
    Line 6520 - Query word performance

is a great responsibility resting on you, Mr. Wrengell. You must use
    Line 6525 - Query word responsibility

is a great responsibility resting on you, Mr. Wrengell. You must use
    Line 6525 - Query word resting

been imparted by harsher censure.
    Line 6529 - Query word imparted

been imparted by harsher censure.
    Line 6529 - Query word harsher

"I presume you play on other instruments," continued Mrs. Boyle. "A
    Line 6531 - Query word presume

"I presume you play on other instruments," continued Mrs. Boyle. "A
    Line 6531 - Query word Boyle

good organ player can make himself very useful. The organ is used so
    Line 6532 - Query word player

good organ player can make himself very useful. The organ is used so
    Line 6532 - Query word useful

battle, arose outside the cottage. On hearing the sound Boyle sprang
    Line 6536 - Query word outside

battle, arose outside the cottage. On hearing the sound Boyle sprang
    Line 6536 - Query word Boyle

up and went hurriedly to a bedroom where he rummaged noisily about,
    Line 6537 - Query word rummaged

up and went hurriedly to a bedroom where he rummaged noisily about,
    Line 6537 - Query word noisily

but he soon reappeared, bearing a double-barreled shotgun.
    Line 6538 - Query word reappeared

but he soon reappeared, bearing a double-barreled shotgun.
    Line 6538 - Query word double

"What are you going to shoot, Alfred?" inquired Mrs. Boyle.
    Line 6540 - Query word Boyle

"Oh, don't do that," protested Mrs. Boyle. "It may be Mr. Lowry's
    Line 6545 - Query word protested

"Oh, don't do that," protested Mrs. Boyle. "It may be Mr. Lowry's
    Line 6545 - Query word Boyle

"Let 'em keep him to home, then," gruffly returned Alf, passing out
    Line 6548 - Query word gruffly

In a few minutes he returned, disappointed, from his hunt. Resuming
    Line 6552 - Query word Resuming

wrinkles that its primarily narrow surface was much diminished and
    Line 6554 - Query word wrinkles

wrinkles that its primarily narrow surface was much diminished and
    Line 6554 - Query word primarily

walked straight to the outside door, looking neither to the right nor
    Line 6557 - Query word outside

"Are you going away, Alfred?" asked Mrs. Boyle, with an anxiety which
    Line 6560 - Query word Boyle

"Are you going away, Alfred?" asked Mrs. Boyle, with an anxiety which
    Line 6560 - Query word anxiety

furiously about, the wrinkles on his brow changed in direction from
    Line 6564 - Query word wrinkles

horizontal to perpendicular, "I'm of age, I thank you."
    Line 6565 - Query word horizontal

horizontal to perpendicular, "I'm of age, I thank you."
    Line 6565 - Query word perpendicular

audible to them, "we'd like to hear another tune. At least, I would."
    Line 6568 - Query word audible

audible to them, "we'd like to hear another tune. At least, I would."
    Line 6568 - Query word tune

John complied with Durgenson's request and putting his violin in its
    Line 6570 - Query word request

"Will you do an errand for me?" asked Mrs. Boyle.
    Line 6577 - Query word Boyle

Mrs. Boyle lighted a lamp, proceeded to the bedroom and closed the
    Line 6584 - Query word Boyle

"I am sorry to keep you waiting," she said, handing John an envelope.
    Line 6587 - Query word handing

When she had finished speaking, Mrs. Boyle stood between John and
    Line 6591 - Query word speaking

When she had finished speaking, Mrs. Boyle stood between John and
    Line 6591 - Query word Boyle

was addressed to Mrs. Cyrus Boyle, Detroit, Mich. The second bore the
    Line 6594 - Query word Boyle

the appearance of Mrs. Boyle nor in that of Durgenson was there any
    Line 6601 - Query word Boyle

confirmation of the message. Her countenance was still untroubled,
    Line 6602 - Query word confirmation

and he was as smiling and good-natured as ever.
    Line 6603 - Query word natured

"Now don't forget my errand," said Mrs. Boyle. "My son is careless
    Line 6610 - Query word Boyle

"Now don't forget my errand," said Mrs. Boyle. "My son is careless
    Line 6610 - Query word careless

"If you'll get a lantern, Mrs. Boyle," said Durgenson, "I'll go to
    Line 6613 - Query word Boyle

"No," said John, in a positive tone, "I do not need any company, nor
    Line 6616 - Query word positive

CHAPTER XVII.
    Line 6626 - Query word XVII

Boyle's. The curtain which shrouded the sky was torn in a few places,
    Line 6630 - Query word Boyle's

Boyle's. The curtain which shrouded the sky was torn in a few places,
    Line 6630 - Query word curtain

Boyle's. The curtain which shrouded the sky was torn in a few places,
    Line 6630 - Query word sky

obstacle, a stump, which threw him and slightly bruised his leg. The
    Line 6634 - Query word obstacle

obstacle, a stump, which threw him and slightly bruised his leg. The
    Line 6634 - Query word slightly

interval between the house and the woods, or more properly the brush,
    Line 6635 - Query word interval

Mrs. Boyle had alluded. It had formerly been a wagon track, but of
    Line 6637 - Query word Boyle

Mrs. Boyle had alluded. It had formerly been a wagon track, but of
    Line 6637 - Query word alluded

late it had been so seldom used by teams that one side of it was
    Line 6638 - Query word teams

grown over with weeds, although the other was beaten down by foot
    Line 6639 - Query word beaten

He began to feel that his alarm in the house was unnecessary and that
    Line 6644 - Query word unnecessary

he had acted rudely toward Durgenson, who certainly had given him no
    Line 6645 - Query word acted

could account for Mrs. Boyle's warning only by one of two
    Line 6648 - Query word Boyle's

suppositions, that she had some reason for her extraordinary caution
    Line 6649 - Query word extraordinary

or that she was insane. After she had handed him the envelope, she
    Line 6650 - Query word handed

not imagine a way in which he might explain his uncivil departure.
    Line 6655 - Query word imagine

not imagine a way in which he might explain his uncivil departure.
    Line 6655 - Query word explain

recently plowed by some unenterprising farmer who was late in the
    Line 6659 - Query word plowed

preparation of his summer fallow. Much of it lay up in large masses,
    Line 6660 - Query word masses

A short, distance from the field was a steep descent leading to the
    Line 6666 - Query word descent

swamp, which here, at the end of a considerable stretch to the east,
    Line 6667 - Query word stretch

at his right a crashing, which, had he been in an eastern tropical
    Line 6670 - Query word eastern

jungle, he might have imagined to be made by a hippopotamus or an
    Line 6671 - Query word imagined

jungle, he might have imagined to be made by a hippopotamus or an
    Line 6671 - Query word hippopotamus

heavy and frequent blows from a cudgel, receded farther to the
    Line 6673 - Query word frequent

heavy and frequent blows from a cudgel, receded farther to the
    Line 6673 - Query word cudgel

stripped him of curiosity as to keep him from wishing to unravel the
    Line 6676 - Query word stripped

mystery. Leaving his violin by a tree which he thought he could
    Line 6677 - Query word mystery

readily find, he followed the retreating noise, which, though varying
    Line 6678 - Query word readily

being discovered by those who made it. It occurred to him that in
    Line 6680 - Query word occurred

comparatively upright man had done before him, he subordinated his
    Line 6683 - Query word comparatively

the other occasionally belaboring him with a tamarack pole.
    Line 6687 - Query word occasionally

"I'll warm his ole sides," responded Ab. "Git along here with you."
    Line 6693 - Query word sides

"You want to look out, Ab," warned the father, "You don't know who's
    Line 6695 - Query word who's

"There'll be a pile of profit in that, I've a good notion to say I'll
    Line 6703 - Query word notion

up to my hips. I don't expect anything but what I'll be sick
    Line 6706 - Query word hips

up to my hips. I don't expect anything but what I'll be sick
    Line 6706 - Query word expect

to-morrow with the rheumatism."
    Line 6707 - Query word morrow

"Oh, this'll only just limber you up, dad," consoled Ab. "You ain't
    Line 6709 - Query word consoled

dead yet. You can grunt."
    Line 6710 - Query word grunt

"It don't feel funny to be all crippled up. You know how I was last
    Line 6713 - Query word crippled

strong risk of detection. For a time, therefore, their conversation
    Line 6724 - Query word detection

quickened his pace and was presently at no great distance from them.
    Line 6726 - Query word pace

This was several miles below the retreat which had been fitted by
    Line 6728 - Query word miles

This was several miles below the retreat which had been fitted by
    Line 6728 - Query word fitted

"There wouldn't be any trouble about selling 'em," declared Wallace.
    Line 6751 - Query word selling

lies. He thought if he said that, he could grind our faces under a
    Line 6760 - Query word lies

animal, jerking away from the elder Wallace, plunged among the trees,
    Line 6773 - Query word jerking

animal, jerking away from the elder Wallace, plunged among the trees,
    Line 6773 - Query word elder

large fallen tamarack, went toward the hard land in a course parallel
    Line 6775 - Query word parallel

which he wished to intercept were necessarily unavailing. So intent
    Line 6778 - Query word intent

sounds of three bodies, one at the left and two at the right, were
    Line 6786 - Query word sounds

inconvenient prisoners to one man unsupported. It was, he thought,
    Line 6790 - Query word inconvenient

advisable for him to secure the colt, restore him to his owner, and
    Line 6791 - Query word owner

testify to what he had seen and heard. Groping carefully and keeping
    Line 6792 - Query word Groping

through which could be seen patches of nearly cloudless sky.
    Line 6797 - Query word sky

the swamp. On the bank of the stream the colt stood, undecided as to
    Line 6800 - Query word bank

not run away, but turning, remained with his heels suggestively
    Line 6802 - Query word remained

John persevered long in his endeavors, but at last, seeing their
    Line 6805 - Query word seeing

uselessness, he decided to retrace his way, giving no further notice
    Line 6806 - Query word uselessness

to the colt. Accordingly, he set out to regain the road which he had
    Line 6807 - Query word regain

entire surface of the ground. Farther on were the tops of the smaller
    Line 6816 - Query word entire

distance of a few feet sufficed to make them indistinguishable. He
    Line 6823 - Query word indistinguishable

he halted to make observations, but as they were invariably limited
    Line 6825 - Query word limited

to thirty square rods of swamp and an indefinite expanse of sky, they
    Line 6826 - Query word sky

were productive of no good. It was with a feeling of relief that he
    Line 6827 - Query word productive

saw the perceptible stretch of the now well-lighted heavens move
    Line 6828 - Query word perceptible

saw the perceptible stretch of the now well-lighted heavens move
    Line 6828 - Query word stretch

downward and expand as the tamaracks diminished in stature. But his
    Line 6829 - Query word downward

downward and expand as the tamaracks diminished in stature. But his
    Line 6829 - Query word stature

joy was dissipated when he found that he had traversed a circle and
    Line 6830 - Query word circle

the familiar stub. He now concluded that by another direction he
    Line 6833 - Query word familiar

would try to reach the upland. His next attempt was to return to the
    Line 6834 - Query word upland

creek, and this he accomplished. It was now morning. He wandered up
    Line 6835 - Query word accomplished

jumped with all his might.
    Line 6838 - Query word jumped

The creek was so wide that a trained athlete might not easily have
    Line 6840 - Query word wide

cleared it at a leap; and he landed, therefore, in the muddy bottom,
    Line 6841 - Query word muddy

where he sank above his waist. Luckily for him, he struck within
    Line 6842 - Query word sank

point, he met with the same success which had attended his efforts on
    Line 6845 - Query word attended

proceeded down the left bank. A walk of thirty rods brought him to a
    Line 6850 - Query word bank

bridge which was curiously constructed of poles. Across it teams and
    Line 6851 - Query word bridge

bridge which was curiously constructed of poles. Across it teams and
    Line 6851 - Query word constructed

bridge which was curiously constructed of poles. Across it teams and
    Line 6851 - Query word teams

wagons had been driven, and from the right bank branched two roads.
    Line 6852 - Query word bank

him back to the bridge. He recrossed it, satisfied that he was in a
    Line 6854 - Query word bridge

on the right bank, and had followed him along the circuitous road
    Line 6856 - Query word bank

approached the edge, snorted, stepped on the poles carefully at
    Line 6857 - Query word snorted

gained the eminence and beheld the welcome signs of
    Line 6862 - Query word welcome

civilization--houses, farms, orchards and cultivated fields. The sun
    Line 6863 - Query word farms

civilization--houses, farms, orchards and cultivated fields. The sun
    Line 6863 - Query word orchards

civilization--houses, farms, orchards and cultivated fields. The sun
    Line 6863 - Query word cultivated

grazing. Near the road and far to the right a boy was riding a wheel
    Line 6866 - Query word riding

cultivator. The creak of a plow wheel came from the opposite side of
    Line 6867 - Query word creak

cultivator. The creak of a plow wheel came from the opposite side of
    Line 6867 - Query word plow

about midway in the line of division which separated the two fields.
    Line 6869 - Query word separated

As John climbed the fence, the plow approached, drawn by two bay
    Line 6870 - Query word plow

As John climbed the fence, the plow approached, drawn by two bay
    Line 6870 - Query word bay

rather disagreeable countenance. He wore an old felt hat which was
    Line 6872 - Query word disagreeable

tucked under at the sides, so that it stuck out in peaks before and
    Line 6873 - Query word sides

"I got lost in the swamp," said John, "and I have no idea where I am.
    Line 6885 - Query word idea

The exclamation was caused by the colt, which had trotted to the
    Line 6898 - Query word trotted

information first to the authorities and afterward to the owner of
    Line 6907 - Query word owner

bloody brute!" he ejaculated, quickly retreating, as the colt whirled
    Line 6916 - Query word bloody

bloody brute!" he ejaculated, quickly retreating, as the colt whirled
    Line 6916 - Query word brute

swamp, that, avoiding the graveled walk which lay between circular
    Line 6926 - Query word graveled

steady strides toward Break o'Day.
    Line 6928 - Query word steady

CHAPTER XVIII.
    Line 6931 - Query word XVIII

Break o'Day is one of the oldest villages in Jackson County. It had
    Line 6934 - Query word oldest

its store and its school-house before the first building was erected
    Line 6935 - Query word erected

subject of many inquiries, which have been answered by local
    Line 6937 - Query word inquiries

antiquarians. The founders of the hamlet, like the majority of
    Line 6938 - Query word majority

Michigan pioneers, came from New York. Four families built their
    Line 6939 - Query word York

houses neat together, that they might enjoy the society of neighbors.
    Line 6940 - Query word enjoy

thinly settled. They had dwelt on the eastern hills, where,
    Line 6942 - Query word dwelt

thinly settled. They had dwelt on the eastern hills, where,
    Line 6942 - Query word eastern

unobstructed, a view extended for miles. They were now in the midst
    Line 6943 - Query word miles

of woods, where they could view no distant object unless it were
    Line 6944 - Query word distant

daily the complaints grew louder. The women, who had been accustomed
    Line 6946 - Query word grew

daily the complaints grew louder. The women, who had been accustomed
    Line 6946 - Query word women

daily the complaints grew louder. The women, who had been accustomed
    Line 6946 - Query word accustomed

to habits of thrift, longed to see the sun rise once more. They
    Line 6947 - Query word habits

to habits of thrift, longed to see the sun rise once more. They
    Line 6947 - Query word rise

declared it was nothing but laziness which allowed them to be penned
    Line 6948 - Query word laziness

up in that fashion, that if they were men, they would chop out at
    Line 6949 - Query word fashion

up in that fashion, that if they were men, they would chop out at
    Line 6949 - Query word chop

least one place wide enough to give them a sight through the forest.
    Line 6950 - Query word wide

a road through which the earliest beams of the daily luminary might
    Line 6952 - Query word beams

a road through which the earliest beams of the daily luminary might
    Line 6952 - Query word luminary

shine. The next morning the entire population of the locality
    Line 6953 - Query word shine

shine. The next morning the entire population of the locality
    Line 6953 - Query word entire

shine. The next morning the entire population of the locality
    Line 6953 - Query word locality

the long stretch of stumps. Shouts resounded, guns were fired, a
    Line 6955 - Query word stretch

the long stretch of stumps. Shouts resounded, guns were fired, a
    Line 6955 - Query word stumps

the long stretch of stumps. Shouts resounded, guns were fired, a
    Line 6955 - Query word guns

the long stretch of stumps. Shouts resounded, guns were fired, a
    Line 6955 - Query word fired

The village never grew to the dimensions which were anticipated for
    Line 6958 - Query word grew

triangle formed by the eastern and south-eastern streets and the
    Line 6963 - Query word eastern

triangle formed by the eastern and south-eastern streets and the
    Line 6963 - Query word eastern

triangle formed by the eastern and south-eastern streets and the
    Line 6963 - Query word streets

cross street which connected them. These streets were named in order,
    Line 6964 - Query word street

cross street which connected them. These streets were named in order,
    Line 6964 - Query word streets

Washington, the hardware store and the blacksmith-shop. Marion,
    Line 6967 - Query word Marion

running northward, could boast only of dwelling-houses. The drugstore
    Line 6968 - Query word boast

running northward, could boast only of dwelling-houses. The drugstore
    Line 6968 - Query word drugstore

which, on account of its shade trees, the villagers named Maple
    Line 6970 - Query word shade

Street, but which the farmers in derision called Scrub Avenue. This
    Line 6971 - Query word Street

Street, but which the farmers in derision called Scrub Avenue. This
    Line 6971 - Query word derision

edifice was painted yellow, had a high square front, a shed roof, and
    Line 6972 - Query word roof

bore the following inscription, "I. J. H. Rorus, M. D., Physician and
    Line 6973 - Query word D

in the swamp, Dr. Rorus opened his drugstore in good season for the
    Line 6977 - Query word drugstore

reputation of being always drunk, and, intentionally or
    Line 6979 - Query word reputation

unintentionally, he preserved his notoriety.
    Line 6980 - Query word preserved

The streets were, as yet, traversed by few people. Most of the
    Line 6982 - Query word streets

inhabitants were eating breakfast. The stores, however, were open,
    Line 6983 - Query word inhabitants

and from the blacksmith-shop came the energetic clinking of a hammer.
    Line 6984 - Query word energetic

Rorus went behind his counter and poured out a glass of spirits,
    Line 6986 - Query word spirits

which he swallowed with relish. Repeating the potations at frequent
    Line 6987 - Query word Repeating

which he swallowed with relish. Repeating the potations at frequent
    Line 6987 - Query word frequent

intervals, he managed to get himself well under the influence of
    Line 6988 - Query word managed

type and every press were concentrated in that nest of infamy,
    Line 6996 - Query word nest

type and every press were concentrated in that nest of infamy,
    Line 6996 - Query word infamy

"Ah, sir," replied Rorus, "you talk of prejudice. Let me recite facts
    Line 7002 - Query word Ah

"Ah, sir," replied Rorus, "you talk of prejudice. Let me recite facts
    Line 7002 - Query word prejudice

"Ah, sir," replied Rorus, "you talk of prejudice. Let me recite facts
    Line 7002 - Query word facts

rise before the sun.' Like the fogs that roll upward from our noble
    Line 7004 - Query word rise

rise before the sun.' Like the fogs that roll upward from our noble
    Line 7004 - Query word roll

helped Oakville with her fair, and that was all right. This year we
    Line 7006 - Query word helped

the money. For the trade. Think of it, speculating on the Fourth of
    Line 7010 - Query word Fourth

land, consecrated to the rights of humanity, such men exist. They are
    Line 7017 - Query word rights

land, consecrated to the rights of humanity, such men exist. They are
    Line 7017 - Query word humanity

in Oakville. They live, they breathe, they taint the pure air of
    Line 7018 - Query word pure

loungers from the near farms as well as from the village.
    Line 7023 - Query word farms

remembers. Do you see that street yonder? That is Warren, and Warren
    Line 7030 - Query word street

sleeps on Bunker Hill."
    Line 7031 - Query word sleeps

and she's got to have some spirits."
    Line 7034 - Query word spirits

on Jackson Street. Break o'Day remembers Old Hickory. Oh, he was the
    Line 7037 - Query word Street

Right up yonder is Washington Street. Break o'Day remembers the
    Line 7039 - Query word Street

Father of his Country. Oh, that George Washington, greatest man in
    Line 7040 - Query word George

all history, very greatest. The French shot at him. The Indians shot
    Line 7041 - Query word French

"Doctor," protested the waiting customer, "my wife is awful sick."
    Line 7046 - Query word protested

Oakville agent, wishing to gain information before Rorus recommenced
    Line 7051 - Query word gain

his harangue.
    Line 7052 - Query word harangue

noticed him, did you? He'd pick up everything there was going.
    Line 7058 - Query word He'd

"Doctor," said the impatient man, "If you can't wait on me, I'm going
    Line 7067 - Query word impatient

medicinal purposes."
    Line 7076 - Query word purposes

reproach to society, that den of iniquity, that abominable hole,
    Line 7082 - Query word reproach

should be closed up. To whom are they selling? To the merchant, to
    Line 7083 - Query word selling

the laborer, to the agriculturist, to--lots of 'em. And yet,
    Line 7085 - Query word lots

medicinal purposes."
    Line 7088 - Query word purposes

"Good idea," assented Rorus. "Grand thing for ague, this quinquina. I
    Line 7099 - Query word idea

"Good idea," assented Rorus. "Grand thing for ague, this quinquina. I
    Line 7099 - Query word assented

"Good idea," assented Rorus. "Grand thing for ague, this quinquina. I
    Line 7099 - Query word Grand

have it pure, too. I'll put them up separately and let you mix them,
    Line 7100 - Query word pure

The next event was the arrival of Wingscheut with his shambling limp.
    Line 7103 - Query word event

been hunting horse-thieves or bears lately? Set down and give us a
    Line 7106 - Query word hunting

been hunting horse-thieves or bears lately? Set down and give us a
    Line 7106 - Query word lately

"No," answered Wingscheut, "unt I ton't vant to pe sick. Tat's te
    Line 7113 - Query word Tat's

"I'm at work on a marsh where there's lots of rattlesnakes," said the
    Line 7123 - Query word lots

"Human life," said the doctor, "must be preserved. Laws are for
    Line 7135 - Query word preserved

humanity. Humanity first and laws afterward. You can have it. But
    Line 7136 - Query word humanity

humanity. Humanity first and laws afterward. You can have it. But
    Line 7136 - Query word Humanity

mind you don't lisp it outside the store."
    Line 7137 - Query word outside

Two men in an open buggy came driving rapidly from the west. One of
    Line 7142 - Query word driving

them tied the horse quickly, and they entered the drugstore. The
    Line 7143 - Query word drugstore

with her sails outspread to the breeze of heaven?"
    Line 7150 - Query word heaven

"It ain't been very quiet," responded Whipple. "My bay colt was stole
    Line 7152 - Query word bay

"I've had him locked up in the barn nights ever since last winter for
    Line 7159 - Query word locked

"I've had him locked up in the barn nights ever since last winter for
    Line 7159 - Query word nights

fear he would be stole. Along the fore part of the summer I slept in
    Line 7160 - Query word slept

the barn. But lately I hadn't heard so much about such business, so I
    Line 7161 - Query word lately

hand's sore, maybe I'd better milk and let you tend to the horses.'
    Line 7163 - Query word sore

'All right,' says Ben, 'my hand is purty sore to milk.' I went to the
    Line 7164 - Query word sore

unlocked.' We went out there, and sure enough he was gone. And it's
    Line 7168 - Query word unlocked

ought to be done. We've stood this stealing as long as we can.
    Line 7170 - Query word stealing

There's a whole gang of the thieves around, and they ought to be
    Line 7171 - Query word gang

"I'd like to see one of 'em git caught," said the flaxen-whiskered
    Line 7174 - Query word flaxen

"I'd like to see one of 'em git caught," said the flaxen-whiskered
    Line 7174 - Query word whiskered

the proposed punishment of the horse-thieves. "He'd be made short
    Line 7176 - Query word He'd

I'd go around and inquire and have my neighbors do the same. They've
    Line 7181 - Query word inquire

and the youth who had used so much persuasion to obtain the bottle of
    Line 7187 - Query word persuasion

Blake. Blake complained of the act and was told that he was a liar.
    Line 7189 - Query word liar

He demanded an apology, which Martin refused to give. Thereupon he
    Line 7190 - Query word Thereupon

threw off hia coat and vest, rolled up his shirt-sleeves, unbuttoned
    Line 7191 - Query word vest

threw off hia coat and vest, rolled up his shirt-sleeves, unbuttoned
    Line 7191 - Query word shirt

threw off hia coat and vest, rolled up his shirt-sleeves, unbuttoned
    Line 7191 - Query word unbuttoned

and turned down his shirt-collar and advanced in fighting attitude
    Line 7192 - Query word shirt

and turned down his shirt-collar and advanced in fighting attitude
    Line 7192 - Query word attitude

Dr. Rorus passed around the large round stove to separate the
    Line 7195 - Query word stove

disputants. Grabbing each by the collar, he exclaimed, "What!
    Line 7196 - Query word Grabbing

and the safety of the community is at stake! Quarreling when our
    Line 7198 - Query word safety

property and our rights and our sacred honor are at stake! For it's a
    Line 7199 - Query word rights

and forget, you know, your little feuds and animosities. Would George
    Line 7204 - Query word George

Anthony Wayne would have stopped charging up Stony Point because some
    Line 7208 - Query word charging

"You won't have to go to Bill's, Whipple," said the flaxen-whiskered
    Line 7213 - Query word flaxen

"You won't have to go to Bill's, Whipple," said the flaxen-whiskered
    Line 7213 - Query word whiskered

midst, "I've lost my bay colt."
    Line 7217 - Query word bay

interview with John, dwelling particularly on the way in which the
    Line 7231 - Query word interview

disagreement. It wouldn't be strange if that's how he come to roll in
    Line 7235 - Query word roll

The drugstore was in a state of tumult. The chairs were deserted, and
    Line 7239 - Query word drugstore

The drugstore was in a state of tumult. The chairs were deserted, and
    Line 7239 - Query word tumult

the men stood, some lethargic with drink, some talking boisterously
    Line 7240 - Query word drink

and urging immediate action.
    Line 7241 - Query word urging

"That's the talk," exclaimed the flaxen-whiskered man. "We may just
    Line 7247 - Query word flaxen

"That's the talk," exclaimed the flaxen-whiskered man. "We may just
    Line 7247 - Query word whiskered

as well make an example of him. That's what we swore to do with the
    Line 7248 - Query word example

as well make an example of him. That's what we swore to do with the
    Line 7248 - Query word swore

he was mudded up and scratched up that way."
    Line 7255 - Query word scratched

"Exceptions to all rules," commented Rorus. "Yes, I'll do it once,
    Line 7263 - Query word Exceptions

"Exceptions to all rules," commented Rorus. "Yes, I'll do it once,
    Line 7263 - Query word rules

Whipple. It's like violating the constitution, that grand instrument,
    Line 7264 - Query word grand

military necessity. This is a civil necessity."
    Line 7266 - Query word military

military necessity. This is a civil necessity."
    Line 7266 - Query word civil

"No law to-day," replied the flaxen-whiskered man.
    Line 7272 - Query word flaxen

"No law to-day," replied the flaxen-whiskered man.
    Line 7272 - Query word whiskered

CHAPTER XIX.
    Line 7275 - Query word XIX

THE VILLAGE HAS A SENSATION.
    Line 7276 - Query word SENSATION

The rain had quite dried from the withered grass in the road when
    Line 7278 - Query word dried

right were stirring hay, which would soon be fit to haul. In a field
    Line 7280 - Query word haul

belonging to a farm adjoining, a reaper was doing the first work in
    Line 7281 - Query word adjoining

himself of his rough exterior. Had he considered in time, he would
    Line 7285 - Query word exterior

landlord about the mud-besmeared passer-by. John met Manie's friend,
    Line 7289 - Query word landlord

landlord about the mud-besmeared passer-by. John met Manie's friend,
    Line 7289 - Query word passer

Miss Holmes, as she was coming from Birch & Bigney's store. She bowed
    Line 7290 - Query word bowed

pleasantly, but she was, he fancied, ashamed of their acquaintance.
    Line 7291 - Query word fancied

pleasantly, but she was, he fancied, ashamed of their acquaintance.
    Line 7291 - Query word acquaintance

Wrengell was annoyed by the scrutiny of some men who were peering
    Line 7293 - Query word annoyed

curiosity, which bordered on impertinence, was indicated by earnest
    Line 7295 - Query word bordered

gestures and one or two outstretched fingers which pointed directly
    Line 7296 - Query word gestures

gestures and one or two outstretched fingers which pointed directly
    Line 7296 - Query word directly

toward him. Used, as he had been, to snubs, he was not accustomed to
    Line 7297 - Query word accustomed

such insolent demonstrations; and he returned glances of defiance to
    Line 7298 - Query word demonstrations

the group at the door of the drug-store. His fearless demeanor
    Line 7299 - Query word group

the group at the door of the drug-store. His fearless demeanor
    Line 7299 - Query word demeanor

prevented for a brief season the aggressive movement which was
    Line 7300 - Query word prevented

prevented for a brief season the aggressive movement which was
    Line 7300 - Query word brief

argumentative, others fiercely denunciatory, each heedless of all
    Line 7302 - Query word argumentative

opinions save his own, none succeeding in making himself well
    Line 7303 - Query word opinions

opinions save his own, none succeeding in making himself well
    Line 7303 - Query word succeeding

The salutation was not the one most likely to propitiate an
    Line 7309 - Query word likely

flaxen-whiskered man, jumping from the steps. "Come on, boys. Now
    Line 7317 - Query word flaxen

flaxen-whiskered man, jumping from the steps. "Come on, boys. Now
    Line 7317 - Query word whiskered

question. Mr. Boyle knows me, do you not, Mr. Boyle?"
    Line 7328 - Query word Boyle

question. Mr. Boyle knows me, do you not, Mr. Boyle?"
    Line 7328 - Query word Boyle

"Why, I was at your house last night," protested John. "Mr. Durgenson
    Line 7333 - Query word protested

introduced us."
    Line 7334 - Query word introduced

The crowd hooted and jostling against one another, endeavored to
    Line 7339 - Query word jostling

"Grab him," yelled the flaxen-whiskered man.
    Line 7342 - Query word Grab

"Grab him," yelled the flaxen-whiskered man.
    Line 7342 - Query word flaxen

"Grab him," yelled the flaxen-whiskered man.
    Line 7342 - Query word whiskered

It was advantageous to John that his enemies were packed closely
    Line 7344 - Query word enemies

stones and clubs, staggered about and uttered loud threats.
    Line 7349 - Query word stones

stones and clubs, staggered about and uttered loud threats.
    Line 7349 - Query word staggered

him all summer and have formed some acquaintance, but none of them,
    Line 7369 - Query word acquaintance

The crowd, gathered from the scum of Break o'Day and the surrounding
    Line 7372 - Query word surrounding

indeed, several who tried to protect the unfortunate Wrengell from
    Line 7374 - Query word tried

indeed, several who tried to protect the unfortunate Wrengell from
    Line 7374 - Query word protect

the general wrath. Inoffensive Jimmy Martin mildly protested that
    Line 7375 - Query word mildly

the general wrath. Inoffensive Jimmy Martin mildly protested that
    Line 7375 - Query word protested

they ought to give him "a show for his life." Keen contrition was
    Line 7376 - Query word Keen

the swamp. He had much exaggerated the facts, and the exaggeration
    Line 7378 - Query word facts

was likely to result in the murder of a man whom he believed he had
    Line 7379 - Query word likely

"Take him down to the tree," said the flaxen-whiskered man.
    Line 7386 - Query word flaxen

"Take him down to the tree," said the flaxen-whiskered man.
    Line 7386 - Query word whiskered

The party moved down the street to an oak, the spreading branches of
    Line 7388 - Query word street

which often afforded a shade to the villagers. Stakes had been
    Line 7389 - Query word shade

which often afforded a shade to the villagers. Stakes had been
    Line 7389 - Query word Stakes

each had been worn depressions where the boys and men had pitched
    Line 7391 - Query word worn

"Where's a rope?" called Boyle. "Somebody git a rope."
    Line 7394 - Query word Boyle

Wrengell. John saw no hope of rescue.
    Line 7397 - Query word rescue

mercy. Those who were least intoxicated were almost invariably
    Line 7400 - Query word mercy

circumstances which had delivered the prisoner into their hands.
    Line 7402 - Query word delivered

Those who were naturally best disposed were, as a rule, too much
    Line 7403 - Query word rule

overcome by drink to have an exact perception of justice. He resolved
    Line 7404 - Query word overcome

overcome by drink to have an exact perception of justice. He resolved
    Line 7404 - Query word drink

overcome by drink to have an exact perception of justice. He resolved
    Line 7404 - Query word exact

overcome by drink to have an exact perception of justice. He resolved
    Line 7404 - Query word perception

that, whatever pleasure they derived from his execution, they should
    Line 7405 - Query word pleasure

that, whatever pleasure they derived from his execution, they should
    Line 7405 - Query word derived

that, whatever pleasure they derived from his execution, they should
    Line 7405 - Query word execution

not have the satisfaction of seeing him weaken at the last moment. He
    Line 7406 - Query word seeing

expected to witness his dejection or terror, they should be
    Line 7408 - Query word dejection

disappointed. If in the death-struggle his body yielded to the
    Line 7409 - Query word yielded

conical figures, standing the advance guard of a mighty host. The
    Line 7415 - Query word figures

next were of high stature, but irregular in form, their tops lacking
    Line 7416 - Query word stature

next were of high stature, but irregular in form, their tops lacking
    Line 7416 - Query word irregular

the gradual taper which beautified those in the first body. Beyond
    Line 7417 - Query word gradual

these, like giants in the rear of a throng, were the upland woods,
    Line 7418 - Query word upland

Washington Street was in a tumult. A long inch rope had been obtained
    Line 7422 - Query word Street

Washington Street was in a tumult. A long inch rope had been obtained
    Line 7422 - Query word tumult

Washington Street was in a tumult. A long inch rope had been obtained
    Line 7422 - Query word inch

vainly expostulating on the precipitancy of their action. Wingscheut
    Line 7425 - Query word precipitancy

was with them, delivering a narrative only part of which could be
    Line 7426 - Query word delivering

was with them, delivering a narrative only part of which could be
    Line 7426 - Query word narrative

discharge from Ratke's. The vigilance of those about him had
    Line 7430 - Query word discharge

lessened. They had scattered and were intent on inspecting the body
    Line 7431 - Query word intent

advancing with the rope. His left arm was clutched fiercely by Boyle;
    Line 7432 - Query word Boyle

his right was held in an indifferent grasp by young Blake, who was
    Line 7433 - Query word indifferent

his right was held in an indifferent grasp by young Blake, who was
    Line 7433 - Query word grasp

Suddenly he jerked loose his right hand and planted it on the jaw of
    Line 7436 - Query word jerked

Boyle, who fell, momentarily stunned. As he whirled about, Blake
    Line 7437 - Query word Boyle

interviewer of the early morning, glad that he could partly nullify
    Line 7439 - Query word early

interviewer of the early morning, glad that he could partly nullify
    Line 7439 - Query word nullify

and allowed him to pass unmolested. Wrengell barely touched the fence
    Line 7441 - Query word touched

directly ahead of him dashed out of his way as he ran almost against
    Line 7453 - Query word directly

directly ahead of him dashed out of his way as he ran almost against
    Line 7453 - Query word dashed

field of wheat on a southern slope. John raced straight through a few
    Line 7455 - Query word southern

rods from them, leaving a path of lodged grain behind him. The owner
    Line 7456 - Query word owner

inquiry, Wrengell descended the hill and passed into the shelter of
    Line 7459 - Query word inquiry

inquiry, Wrengell descended the hill and passed into the shelter of
    Line 7459 - Query word descended

some willow bushes, where he moderated his pace to a walk. Although
    Line 7460 - Query word pace

this was the asylum which he had sought, he was impatient at the
    Line 7461 - Query word asylum

this was the asylum which he had sought, he was impatient at the
    Line 7461 - Query word impatient

the movements of his enemies. He felt relieved as he entered the body
    Line 7463 - Query word enemies

not stop there. Every jungle, every fallen tree-top, in fact every
    Line 7465 - Query word fact

tamaracks, where there was less underbrush, he went with more
    Line 7467 - Query word underbrush

rapidity.
    Line 7468 - Query word rapidity

A gleam of water was before him. He was nearing a lake, which with an
    Line 7470 - Query word lake

area of half a section effectually barred his advance. The sound of
    Line 7471 - Query word section

voices at his right prevented him from wheeling and skirting along
    Line 7472 - Query word prevented

the bank. He, without practice as a swimmer, was on a point of land
    Line 7473 - Query word bank

the bank. He, without practice as a swimmer, was on a point of land
    Line 7473 - Query word practice

surrounded by the water and his foes. In his pocket was a revolver
    Line 7474 - Query word revolver

was fired. His pursuers, almost in sight, were crashing through the
    Line 7477 - Query word fired

swamp. He had decided to turn, draw his revolver and stake his chance
    Line 7478 - Query word revolver

of escape on one determined charge, when across the point of land,
    Line 7479 - Query word charge

did he occupy in crossing the cape, but rapid as was his progress, it
    Line 7481 - Query word occupy

did he occupy in crossing the cape, but rapid as was his progress, it
    Line 7481 - Query word crossing

did he occupy in crossing the cape, but rapid as was his progress, it
    Line 7481 - Query word rapid

revolver he dashed at the young men, who scrambled precipitately to
    Line 7485 - Query word revolver

revolver he dashed at the young men, who scrambled precipitately to
    Line 7485 - Query word dashed

land, unheeding water, mud and reputation for courage. John's haste
    Line 7486 - Query word reputation

Slipping on the narrow dock, which was composed of a few poles, he
    Line 7488 - Query word Slipping

fell into the water, regaining his footing as Alf Boyle emerged from
    Line 7489 - Query word regaining

fell into the water, regaining his footing as Alf Boyle emerged from
    Line 7489 - Query word Boyle

the tamaracks. To his discomfiture he found the boat locked. He must
    Line 7490 - Query word locked

act with decision, for a reinforcement of roughs was but a few rods
    Line 7491 - Query word decision

distant. He seized the chain and pulled with his entire strength, but
    Line 7492 - Query word distant

distant. He seized the chain and pulled with his entire strength, but
    Line 7492 - Query word entire

distant. He seized the chain and pulled with his entire strength, but
    Line 7492 - Query word strength

the fastening remained secure. In desperation he clutched a paddle
    Line 7493 - Query word remained

the fastening remained secure. In desperation he clutched a paddle
    Line 7493 - Query word paddle

and pushed. The chain straightened, the lock gave way; the momentum
    Line 7494 - Query word straightened

had accomplished what the steady force could not.
    Line 7495 - Query word accomplished

had accomplished what the steady force could not.
    Line 7495 - Query word steady

Alf in the mean time had traversed the dock. His eye, which the night
    Line 7497 - Query word eye

before had avoided John, was now fixed upon him with a brute
    Line 7498 - Query word fixed

before had avoided John, was now fixed upon him with a brute
    Line 7498 - Query word brute

ferocity. Seeing the boat sheering away from him, he sprang into the
    Line 7499 - Query word ferocity

ferocity. Seeing the boat sheering away from him, he sprang into the
    Line 7499 - Query word Seeing

lake and grasped its gunwale, nearly overturning it. At the instant
    Line 7500 - Query word lake

paddle a blow on the head, which loosened his hold and obliged him to
    Line 7502 - Query word paddle

seize the dock to keep from sinking. Several young men leaped into
    Line 7503 - Query word seize

seize the dock to keep from sinking. Several young men leaped into
    Line 7503 - Query word leaped

the lake, but they were kept from a near approach to John by the
    Line 7504 - Query word lake

splashing of water into their faces and the sight of the paddle,
    Line 7505 - Query word splashing

splashing of water into their faces and the sight of the paddle,
    Line 7505 - Query word paddle

which was menacingly uplifted. The gathering mob cast curses and
    Line 7506 - Query word cast

sticks at the fugitive, but the demonstrations only showed their
    Line 7507 - Query word demonstrations

present impotence to do him harm. It was fortunate for John that
    Line 7508 - Query word fortunate

coat and vest, which had much impeded his flight. Near the opposite
    Line 7514 - Query word vest

coat and vest, which had much impeded his flight. Near the opposite
    Line 7514 - Query word impeded

fishermen. After repealed signaling and shouting they understood that
    Line 7516 - Query word repealed

they were expected to stop an escaping horse thief. They unfastened
    Line 7517 - Query word unfastened

directly for the nearer craft. Amazed at his audacity, the fishermen
    Line 7521 - Query word directly

slackened their speed. Wrengell was within what he considered good
    Line 7522 - Query word speed

rifle range when, turning the rusted cylinder of his revolver and
    Line 7523 - Query word revolver

elevating the muzzle, he fired. He was little practiced and had no
    Line 7524 - Query word fired

dexterity in pistol-shooting, but to his astonishment and their
    Line 7525 - Query word dexterity

dexterity in pistol-shooting, but to his astonishment and their
    Line 7525 - Query word pistol

dismay, the bullet struck close to the prow of the foremost boat.
    Line 7526 - Query word dismay

Careful to turn the weapon slightly to one side, he fired a second
    Line 7527 - Query word slightly

Careful to turn the weapon slightly to one side, he fired a second
    Line 7527 - Query word fired

time; and the missile, whizzing past them, struck the water with a
    Line 7528 - Query word past

cutting plunge. The paddles which propelled the craft stopped moving,
    Line 7529 - Query word cutting

cutting plunge. The paddles which propelled the craft stopped moving,
    Line 7529 - Query word propelled

and the occupants looked from one to another in mute inquiry. While
    Line 7530 - Query word occupants

and the occupants looked from one to another in mute inquiry. While
    Line 7530 - Query word inquiry

anxious for an encounter. Convinced that they were dealing with one
    Line 7532 - Query word dealing

slaughtering the entire party, they paddled manfully to the eastern
    Line 7534 - Query word entire

slaughtering the entire party, they paddled manfully to the eastern
    Line 7534 - Query word eastern

end of the lake. Those in the second boat, finding themselves
    Line 7535 - Query word lake

crafts skirted the opposite ends of the lake, so as to be well out of
    Line 7537 - Query word ends

crafts skirted the opposite ends of the lake, so as to be well out of
    Line 7537 - Query word lake

reach of the dreaded outlaw, and in response to the frantic shouting
    Line 7538 - Query word dreaded

and waving of hats crossed over to transport the crowd at the dock.
    Line 7539 - Query word waving

them two more shots. He then struck out for the southern shore, where
    Line 7542 - Query word southern

freely in vocalization.
    Line 7547 - Query word freely

freely in vocalization.
    Line 7547 - Query word vocalization

Wrengell threw his coat and vest into the tall grass, and after a
    Line 7549 - Query word vest

o'Day, away from the only community which had ever really respected
    Line 7553 - Query word really

him, away from the woman whom he loved, whose love he had hoped to
    Line 7554 - Query word loved

the absence of the slightest evidence to explain his whereabouts
    Line 7557 - Query word slightest

the absence of the slightest evidence to explain his whereabouts
    Line 7557 - Query word explain

retake him, as if he had become accustomed to conflicts in following
    Line 7561 - Query word accustomed

retake him, as if he had become accustomed to conflicts in following
    Line 7561 - Query word conflicts

unlawful occupations. He had fired upon and barely missed inoffensive
    Line 7562 - Query word fired

unlawful occupations. He had fired upon and barely missed inoffensive
    Line 7562 - Query word missed

revolver. His dreams of respectability were dissipated. The public
    Line 7565 - Query word revolver

revolver. His dreams of respectability were dissipated. The public
    Line 7565 - Query word dreams

would inquire about his antecedents, and his miserable parentage
    Line 7566 - Query word inquire

would be made known. With his deformed foot, with the criminal record
    Line 7567 - Query word criminal

reputation for felony how could he win esteem? He decided to go to
    Line 7569 - Query word reputation

reputation for felony how could he win esteem? He decided to go to
    Line 7569 - Query word win

follow for several miles, returning to the swamp when he had
    Line 7571 - Query word miles

peninsula. The lake which he had crossed was one of a series emptying
    Line 7576 - Query word peninsula

peninsula. The lake which he had crossed was one of a series emptying
    Line 7576 - Query word lake

peninsula. The lake which he had crossed was one of a series emptying
    Line 7576 - Query word series

through Huron River into Erie. The streams on the opposite side of
    Line 7577 - Query word Huron

the table-land went westward and, passing around Mackinac through the
    Line 7578 - Query word westward

upper part of the great lake-chain, arrived at the same destination.
    Line 7579 - Query word lake

upper part of the great lake-chain, arrived at the same destination.
    Line 7579 - Query word destination

The wide spaces between the high tamaracks below John allowed him to
    Line 7581 - Query word wide

The wide spaces between the high tamaracks below John allowed him to
    Line 7581 - Query word spaces

The boats had started to recross. Filled with excited men and
    Line 7583 - Query word recross

impelled by clumsy substitutes for oars, including poles and boards,
    Line 7584 - Query word impelled

impelled by clumsy substitutes for oars, including poles and boards,
    Line 7584 - Query word clumsy

immediately overtake him, for he had fairly outrun them at the
    Line 7590 - Query word fairly

procure horses and, proceeding along the road, head him off, after
    Line 7592 - Query word procure

field, which he deemed it injudicious to cross. In order to avoid
    Line 7594 - Query word injudicious

exposing himself to view he was obliged to sheer farther from the
    Line 7595 - Query word exposing

the route which he had chosen, he climbed a fence for the purpose of
    Line 7598 - Query word chosen

entering the thicket. He stood a moment on the top rail, listening
    Line 7599 - Query word rail

for the sounds of pursuit. As he was about to descend, the rotten
    Line 7600 - Query word sounds

rail broke and he was precipitated heavily to the ground. He strove
    Line 7601 - Query word rail

rail broke and he was precipitated heavily to the ground. He strove
    Line 7601 - Query word precipitated

to rise, but a sharp pain shot through his ankle, which refused to
    Line 7602 - Query word rise

bear his weight. He was crippled and defenseless, and near him were
    Line 7603 - Query word crippled

enemies who, if they were before relentless, were now exasperated. He
    Line 7604 - Query word enemies

enemies who, if they were before relentless, were now exasperated. He
    Line 7604 - Query word exasperated

frequent intervals indicated that the place was much visited. In the
    Line 7606 - Query word frequent

hope of finding a jungle which might screen him, he crawled for a few
    Line 7607 - Query word screen

another mode of travel. His next experiment was hopping, which had
    Line 7609 - Query word travel

off his balance, and aggravated the pain in his injured limb. He
    Line 7611 - Query word balance

again went on his hands and knees, regardless of the injury to his
    Line 7612 - Query word knees

With the intention of silently stealing away he partly arose and was
    Line 7616 - Query word silently

With the intention of silently stealing away he partly arose and was
    Line 7616 - Query word stealing

about to execute his purpose, when the berry-picker, hearing a slight
    Line 7617 - Query word execute

bordered on alarm, burst from the woman, who was Mrs. Boyle.
    Line 7619 - Query word bordered

bordered on alarm, burst from the woman, who was Mrs. Boyle.
    Line 7619 - Query word Boyle

"They are coming," said Mrs. Boyle, in a frenzied manner. "I don't
    Line 7630 - Query word Boyle

CHAPTER XX.
    Line 7635 - Query word XX

A GOOD SAMARITAN.
    Line 7636 - Query word SAMARITAN

"Quick!", said Mrs. Boyle. "They'll be here in a few minutes. I know
    Line 7638 - Query word Boyle

where you can hide. Come on. Oh, dear! You can't come. Lean on my
    Line 7639 - Query word Lean

With the help of Mrs. Boyle John made his way through the bushes. His
    Line 7642 - Query word Boyle

lame ankle was frequently twisted in his haste. The briars scratched
    Line 7643 - Query word frequently

lame ankle was frequently twisted in his haste. The briars scratched
    Line 7643 - Query word twisted

lame ankle was frequently twisted in his haste. The briars scratched
    Line 7643 - Query word scratched

blackberry vines; and letting go his arm, she threw back the trailing
    Line 7646 - Query word vines

cover from the dry sticks and leaves, among which she hastily
    Line 7647 - Query word cover

he was covered by the brush which Mrs. Boyle had removed and lastly
    Line 7649 - Query word Boyle

by the long vines, the meshes of which made the signs of the
    Line 7650 - Query word vines

Mrs. Boyle hastened to the house, which she began to sweep. While she
    Line 7656 - Query word Boyle

was thus engaged, Alf, with several companions, came to the door.
    Line 7657 - Query word companions

Their faces were red, their coats and vests had been taken off, their
    Line 7658 - Query word coats

shirts were drenched with perspiration.
    Line 7659 - Query word drenched

"Have you seen a feller go by here?" inquired Boyle.
    Line 7661 - Query word Boyle

"What kind of looking man?" asked Mrs. Boyle.
    Line 7663 - Query word Boyle

"No, I haven't," said Mrs. Boyle.
    Line 7668 - Query word Boyle

"Will you be back to dinner, Alfred?" inquired Mrs. Boyle.
    Line 7673 - Query word Boyle

respective qualities of speed, endurance and determination. It was
    Line 7680 - Query word speed

fishing-boats, or had been delayed by going around the lake. As soon
    Line 7683 - Query word lake

as Mrs. Boyle considered it safe to do so, she went to the
    Line 7684 - Query word Boyle

hiding-place where she had left Wrengell. She wondered, when she
    Line 7685 - Query word wondered

parties. The vines had been drawn over the brush with such haste that
    Line 7687 - Query word parties

parties. The vines had been drawn over the brush with such haste that
    Line 7687 - Query word vines

some of them were turned with the berries and upper sides of the
    Line 7688 - Query word sides

leaves down. She removed the covering and assisted John to rise.
    Line 7689 - Query word covering

leaves down. She removed the covering and assisted John to rise.
    Line 7689 - Query word rise

"You can't stay here," returned Mrs. Boyle. "They'll be back, and
    Line 7701 - Query word Boyle

a week at a time. You can go up into the loft. There are no stairs
    Line 7704 - Query word loft

and we never go up there; that is, we haven't been up for six months.
    Line 7705 - Query word months

These arguments were convincing to John. In a few minutes he was in
    Line 7710 - Query word convincing

the loft. After his ascent, Mrs. Boyle thrust a chair through the
    Line 7711 - Query word loft

the loft. After his ascent, Mrs. Boyle thrust a chair through the
    Line 7711 - Query word Boyle

the loft. After his ascent, Mrs. Boyle thrust a chair through the
    Line 7711 - Query word thrust

opening, bidding him, as he valued his safety to maintain perfect
    Line 7712 - Query word valued

opening, bidding him, as he valued his safety to maintain perfect
    Line 7712 - Query word safety

to build a fire. The roof of the chamber was unsealed. Its inner
    Line 7714 - Query word roof

Built along them at frequent intervals, were wasp-nests whose
    Line 7716 - Query word frequent

In a few minutes Mrs. Boyle appeared, "We must have your boot off,"
    Line 7719 - Query word Boyle

"I have tried that," replied John, "but it will not come."
    Line 7722 - Query word tried

"We will have to cut it loose," said Mrs. Boyle. "Let me take your
    Line 7724 - Query word Boyle

dwarfish body, sticking from an extensive puff. John, wearied by his
    Line 7731 - Query word sticking

long run and racked by suffering, was yet morbidly sensitive to an
    Line 7732 - Query word sensitive

exposure of the misshapen part. Mrs. Boyle applied hot cloths to the
    Line 7733 - Query word Boyle

injured ankle and handed him a bottle of camphor for application. She
    Line 7734 - Query word handed

did not wound his feelings by an allusion to the malformation, nor
    Line 7735 - Query word malformation

did she appear to notice it. John could not explain her indifference
    Line 7736 - Query word explain

to so unusual a sight. It argued either that she had perfect control
    Line 7737 - Query word argued

over her actions, or that she had previously known of his misfortune.
    Line 7738 - Query word actions

over her actions, or that she had previously known of his misfortune.
    Line 7738 - Query word misfortune

"I see you haven't any coat or vest," said Mrs. Boyle. "Where did you
    Line 7740 - Query word vest

"I see you haven't any coat or vest," said Mrs. Boyle. "Where did you
    Line 7740 - Query word Boyle

"In the grass on this side of the lake," answered John. "I was very
    Line 7743 - Query word lake

Boyle. "You will have a tedious time of it. Be careful and don't
    Line 7752 - Query word Boyle

"No," returned Mrs. Boyle, "you never stole horses. As soon as you
    Line 7759 - Query word Boyle

John was cautioned by Mrs. Boyle not to get so close to a window as
    Line 7765 - Query word cautioned

John was cautioned by Mrs. Boyle not to get so close to a window as
    Line 7765 - Query word Boyle

to be visible to a person outside. While they were eating, and while
    Line 7766 - Query word person

to be visible to a person outside. While they were eating, and while
    Line 7766 - Query word outside

she kept watch on the several avenues by which the house was likely
    Line 7767 - Query word likely

experienced since they parted after their first meeting. He did not
    Line 7769 - Query word experienced

experienced since they parted after their first meeting. He did not
    Line 7769 - Query word parted

"It is a disgrace," said Mrs. Boyle, "that Dr. Rorus will drink and
    Line 7773 - Query word Boyle

"It is a disgrace," said Mrs. Boyle, "that Dr. Rorus will drink and
    Line 7773 - Query word drink

sell liquor so. He used to be called a smart man when he kept sober,
    Line 7774 - Query word sober

but drink has nearly ruined his mind and his practice. No one ever
    Line 7775 - Query word drink

but drink has nearly ruined his mind and his practice. No one ever
    Line 7775 - Query word ruined

but drink has nearly ruined his mind and his practice. No one ever
    Line 7775 - Query word practice

sees him now, except when he has been drinking. Break o' Day used to
    Line 7776 - Query word sees

be a peaceful place. Now they have awful fights there, and drunken
    Line 7777 - Query word peaceful

men are around all the time. There is a law against selling liquor,
    Line 7778 - Query word selling

legal complaint, but I do dread it so, and then Alfred, you know, he
    Line 7781 - Query word complaint

legal complaint, but I do dread it so, and then Alfred, you know, he
    Line 7781 - Query word dread

John doubted that there was a just occasion for Mrs. Boyle's fear. He
    Line 7785 - Query word Boyle's

believed that she was incapable of committing a wrong act. He had
    Line 7786 - Query word committing

expression of self-forgetfulness and concern for the comfort of
    Line 7788 - Query word concern

others. She kept a fire in the stove, and at intervals brought up hot
    Line 7789 - Query word stove

water in which to dip the cloths for the swollen limb. Mrs. Boyle did
    Line 7790 - Query word Boyle

not venture to eat supper with John in the loft. She was apprehensive
    Line 7791 - Query word loft

lest Alf might change his mind and return when he was least expected.
    Line 7792 - Query word lest

At sunset she carried a feather tick and some clothes to the chamber
    Line 7793 - Query word tick

and arranged for John a comfortable bed, When this was done, she
    Line 7794 - Query word arranged

descended; and a few seconds later John heard her leave the house.
    Line 7795 - Query word descended

descended; and a few seconds later John heard her leave the house.
    Line 7795 - Query word later

Her absence was continued for an hour, but finally she reappeared in
    Line 7796 - Query word finally

Her absence was continued for an hour, but finally she reappeared in
    Line 7796 - Query word reappeared

the loft with a bundle under her arm.
    Line 7797 - Query word loft

"I am mad," said John. "You have been to the lake after my coat and
    Line 7799 - Query word lake

vest. You have worked so hard that you ought not to have gone down
    Line 7800 - Query word vest

there, tramping through the grass."
    Line 7801 - Query word tramping

"It did not hurt me in the least," said Mrs. Boyle. "I found them in
    Line 7803 - Query word Boyle

Wrengell had reason to be thankful. He had escaped a vindictive mob,
    Line 7806 - Query word vindictive

good Samaritan who had dressed his wounds and paid his reckoning at
    Line 7808 - Query word Samaritan

good Samaritan who had dressed his wounds and paid his reckoning at
    Line 7808 - Query word reckoning

oft repeated, the hooting of an owl, Sometimes distant, sometimes
    Line 7811 - Query word distant

near, always monotonous, more interesting to him, because he did not
    Line 7812 - Query word interesting

know their origin, were the cries of two raccoons which were calling
    Line 7813 - Query word origin

to each other from different parts of the wood.
    Line 7814 - Query word parts

It was after daylight when he awoke from one brief nap which he had
    Line 7816 - Query word daylight

It was after daylight when he awoke from one brief nap which he had
    Line 7816 - Query word brief

It was after daylight when he awoke from one brief nap which he had
    Line 7816 - Query word nap

Boyle was stepping about briskly preparing breakfast. John was in no
    Line 7818 - Query word Boyle

hurry to rise, for he lacked a profitable occupation. He lay long
    Line 7819 - Query word rise

looking up at the rough roof boards, on the surface of which were
    Line 7820 - Query word roof

dark weather-stains and those rings which record the years of the
    Line 7821 - Query word rings

oak. His left leg was useless for purposes of travel. He dressed,
    Line 7822 - Query word purposes

oak. His left leg was useless for purposes of travel. He dressed,
    Line 7822 - Query word travel

took his crutches and, heedless of the injunctions which Mrs. Boyle
    Line 7823 - Query word Boyle

had given him, opened a window and leaned half his body outside. The
    Line 7824 - Query word outside

clearing was bounded on two sides by brush. These surroundings might
    Line 7825 - Query word sides

clearing was bounded on two sides by brush. These surroundings might
    Line 7825 - Query word surroundings

timber. Some industrious man had chopped off a considerable amount of
    Line 7827 - Query word industrious

The window where Wrengell was seated looked out on a fine stretch of
    Line 7831 - Query word stretch

wood. The trees, which were mostly of oak, were clad in the full
    Line 7832 - Query word mostly

well-formed, wide-spreading tops.
    Line 7835 - Query word wide

The tree was bent, as if its heavy burden had brought in youth the
    Line 7841 - Query word burden

recreation, sinks without a complaint under the weight of tasks, the
    Line 7843 - Query word complaint

recreation, sinks without a complaint under the weight of tasks, the
    Line 7843 - Query word tasks

endurance of which requires the strength of manhood.
    Line 7844 - Query word strength

endurance of which requires the strength of manhood.
    Line 7844 - Query word manhood

hopped leisurely to the sapling, which he proceeded to climb. He
    Line 7847 - Query word leisurely

worked his way through, and seated on the top mat of vines, began
    Line 7848 - Query word mat

worked his way through, and seated on the top mat of vines, began
    Line 7848 - Query word vines

earnestly to chatter. When he tired of this situation, he leaped to
    Line 7849 - Query word earnestly

earnestly to chatter. When he tired of this situation, he leaped to
    Line 7849 - Query word situation

earnestly to chatter. When he tired of this situation, he leaped to
    Line 7849 - Query word leaped

joined by another squirrel, which chased him round and round the body
    Line 7851 - Query word chased

innocent gambols of the animal. He was about to push his head through
    Line 7856 - Query word innocent

rang out and the squirrel tumbled to the ground. As helplessly
    Line 7858 - Query word rang

rang out and the squirrel tumbled to the ground. As helplessly
    Line 7858 - Query word helplessly

catching him by the tail struck his head several times against the
    Line 7860 - Query word tail

John, looking through a knot-hole in the side of the house, feared
    Line 7864 - Query word knot

John, looking through a knot-hole in the side of the house, feared
    Line 7864 - Query word feared

that Alf might see the open window and mistrust the presence of a
    Line 7865 - Query word mistrust

delight in taking his life. After Alf had disappeared from his view,
    Line 7868 - Query word delight

"Here's a squirrel, ma," said Boyle. "Can you cook him for
    Line 7872 - Query word Boyle

"Here's a squirrel, ma," said Boyle. "Can you cook him for
    Line 7872 - Query word cook

"I won't have time to dress him," replied Mrs. Boyle. "I'll cook him
    Line 7875 - Query word Boyle

"I won't have time to dress him," replied Mrs. Boyle. "I'll cook him
    Line 7875 - Query word cook

you very busy to cook for two. I won't be here to dinner. I s'pose,
    Line 7879 - Query word cook

"Why can't you be here at dinner?" asked Mrs. Boyle. "Don't you think
    Line 7882 - Query word Boyle

The conversation between Alf and Mrs. Boyle was limited. As the young
    Line 7885 - Query word Boyle

The conversation between Alf and Mrs. Boyle was limited. As the young
    Line 7885 - Query word limited

"I can't very well spare it," replied Mrs. Boyle.
    Line 7888 - Query word Boyle

Mrs. Boyle reluctantly procured the desired sum for Alf, who departed
    Line 7900 - Query word Boyle

Mrs. Boyle reluctantly procured the desired sum for Alf, who departed
    Line 7900 - Query word procured

many luxuries. Mrs. Boyle furnished him a few books, but they were of
    Line 7905 - Query word Boyle

a character such as, it must be confessed, is interesting to few
    Line 7906 - Query word interesting

biographies of religious people. A strong recommendation for perusing
    Line 7908 - Query word perusing

read. She was never idle, and rarely working for her own benefit. She
    Line 7910 - Query word idle

carried her medicine, delicacies and staple provisions. There were,
    Line 7912 - Query word delicacies

carried her medicine, delicacies and staple provisions. There were,
    Line 7912 - Query word staple

carried her medicine, delicacies and staple provisions. There were,
    Line 7912 - Query word provisions

charity, but he saw direct and circumstantial evidence to convince
    Line 7914 - Query word charity

her house and alluded to a coat which she had given him.
    Line 7916 - Query word alluded

John was awakened the fourth night after his arrival by the gruff
    Line 7918 - Query word fourth

John was awakened the fourth night after his arrival by the gruff
    Line 7918 - Query word gruff

voice of Alf in the lower room. The worthless fellow was repeating
    Line 7919 - Query word repeating

his demand for money, which Mrs. Boyle was resisting.
    Line 7920 - Query word Boyle

"I can't give it to you to-night, Alfred," said Mrs. Boyle.
    Line 7926 - Query word Boyle

"Why, what have you been doing?" cried Mrs. Boyle, "You have got into
    Line 7933 - Query word Boyle

"I have let you have all I can," replied Mrs. Boyle. "I'm afraid you
    Line 7939 - Query word Boyle

"If you don't git it, I'll burn your ole shanty down. Now you can bet
    Line 7943 - Query word shanty

"It is the Lord's," returned Mrs. Boyle firmly, "and I must keep it."
    Line 7946 - Query word Boyle

"It is the Lord's," returned Mrs. Boyle firmly, "and I must keep it."
    Line 7946 - Query word firmly

I have tried to bring you up right and cried about you and give you
    Line 7952 - Query word tried

more than I keep myself. But this I have promised to apply to the
    Line 7953 - Query word apply

"No," said Mrs. Boyle, "it is God's and I must keep it."
    Line 7959 - Query word Boyle

"No," said Mrs. Boyle, "it is God's and I must keep it."
    Line 7959 - Query word God's

Alf was furious with rage. He uttered a savage oath, raised his fist,
    Line 7961 - Query word furious

Alf was furious with rage. He uttered a savage oath, raised his fist,
    Line 7961 - Query word fist

from the room. As soon as the dispute threatened a serous
    Line 7963 - Query word dispute

termination, John arose and began to dress. The blow from Alf's fist
    Line 7964 - Query word fist

"Oh, stop John!" Mrs. Boyle pleaded, sobbing in spite of her efforts
    Line 7971 - Query word Boyle

to be calm. "You mustn't say anything! You must keep still or he will
    Line 7972 - Query word mustn't

punish him. I will shoot him!"
    Line 7976 - Query word punish

"What!" exclaimed Mrs. Boyle, "you wouldn't shoot my son?"
    Line 7978 - Query word Boyle

CHAPTER XXI.
    Line 7984 - Query word XXI

CONTROVERSY AND REMINISCENCE.
    Line 7985 - Query word REMINISCENCE

Green, and was the most notable event which had happened in the
    Line 7988 - Query word notable

Green, and was the most notable event which had happened in the
    Line 7988 - Query word event

Press visited the hamlet, which in a few weeks acquired more
    Line 7990 - Query word acquired

reputation than it had hitherto gained in half a century. From
    Line 7991 - Query word reputation

maintained, unarmed and unaided, a combat with four of them, and
    Line 7997 - Query word unarmed

that, had he been properly supported, the entire gang might have been
    Line 7998 - Query word entire

that, had he been properly supported, the entire gang might have been
    Line 7998 - Query word gang

active in making inquiries about Wrengell. It gave a highly colored
    Line 8003 - Query word inquiries

active in making inquiries about Wrengell. It gave a highly colored
    Line 8003 - Query word highly

active in making inquiries about Wrengell. It gave a highly colored
    Line 8003 - Query word colored

account of the young man's sojourn at Ratke's. It dwelt minutely on
    Line 8004 - Query word dwelt

declared that a man unused to deeds of violence could never show such
    Line 8006 - Query word deeds

been detained by the order-loving citizens of Break o'Day, how he had
    Line 8008 - Query word loving

he had fearlessly charged upon and driven back a group of men at the
    Line 8010 - Query word group

usual reply in a long series of co-ordinate terms capped by an
    Line 8016 - Query word series

was subjected to so much as an affront at the drug-store, he would
    Line 8019 - Query word affront

administer a personal castigation to its proprietor. Directly after
    Line 8020 - Query word castigation

administer a personal castigation to its proprietor. Directly after
    Line 8020 - Query word Directly

the appearance of the exaggerated article in the "Goad" Ratke called
    Line 8021 - Query word article

untruths, it still bore strong testimony against Wrengell.
    Line 8024 - Query word untruths

The startling occurrences which agitated Ratke's neighbors did not
    Line 8026 - Query word agitated

keep him from the contemplation of his inventions. He had engaged an
    Line 8027 - Query word inventions

take in pieces and put on another vehicle for transportation. As the
    Line 8029 - Query word transportation

several parts were too heavy to be lifted easily by one man, he
    Line 8030 - Query word parts

"I expect to create a sensation with my wagon in a few weeks, Jake,"
    Line 8033 - Query word expect

"I expect to create a sensation with my wagon in a few weeks, Jake,"
    Line 8033 - Query word sensation

said the philosopher. "If it becomes famous, you can boast that you
    Line 8034 - Query word famous

said the philosopher. "If it becomes famous, you can boast that you
    Line 8034 - Query word boast

"you may haul the wood which you and John sawed. I would like to be
    Line 8042 - Query word haul

able to say that my inventions are used to a great extent on my farm.
    Line 8043 - Query word inventions

Jake had a special aversion to the products of his employer's genius.
    Line 8047 - Query word employer's

He had driven but a few rods when the reach came unfastened and
    Line 8049 - Query word unfastened

letting one end of the box fall to the ground, slid him speedily down
    Line 8050 - Query word slid

the smooth bottom boards. Many minutes were occupied in readjusting
    Line 8051 - Query word smooth

the detached parts. Impatient of delay, he climbed on the wagon and
    Line 8052 - Query word parts

the detached parts. Impatient of delay, he climbed on the wagon and
    Line 8052 - Query word Impatient

the detached parts. Impatient of delay, he climbed on the wagon and
    Line 8052 - Query word delay

jerked loose, and he was nearly pulled from his position by the
    Line 8054 - Query word jerked

lines. The last accident intensified his disgust, which he had before
    Line 8055 - Query word accident

trucks, and with this equipment hauled the wood in the forenoon some
    Line 8057 - Query word forenoon

"Trace," said the major, "that article which you sent to the
    Line 8064 - Query word article

coming from a distance will make me and my inventions respected more
    Line 8068 - Query word inventions

at home. A great name, to be acquired in one's own neighborhood, must
    Line 8069 - Query word acquired

be imported. We may call this the endosmose of reputation."
    Line 8070 - Query word reputation

accustomed place under a shed. His anger was kindled at sight of
    Line 8073 - Query word accustomed

said Jake, "but you needn't be in no hurry about it. I'll let you
    Line 8108 - Query word needn't

finish up my job at the wood. I don't care for no dinner. I've et in
    Line 8115 - Query word job

that house for nine years, but 'tain't likely I'll ever eat there
    Line 8116 - Query word likely

The major found visitors awaiting him in the house, Senator Mallard
    Line 8119 - Query word visitors

The major found visitors awaiting him in the house, Senator Mallard
    Line 8119 - Query word awaiting

The major found visitors awaiting him in the house, Senator Mallard
    Line 8119 - Query word Mallard

Mallard's whole aspect was one of strength, both physical and mental.
    Line 8121 - Query word Mallard's

Mallard's whole aspect was one of strength, both physical and mental.
    Line 8121 - Query word strength

smooth-shaven. His mouth was peculiarly expressive, indicating
    Line 8123 - Query word smooth

smooth-shaven. His mouth was peculiarly expressive, indicating
    Line 8123 - Query word peculiarly

according to his mood, pleasure, approbation, sarcasm, disdain or
    Line 8124 - Query word pleasure

according to his mood, pleasure, approbation, sarcasm, disdain or
    Line 8124 - Query word approbation

according to his mood, pleasure, approbation, sarcasm, disdain or
    Line 8124 - Query word sarcasm

United States Senate, he was ranked as a power in debate; and in a
    Line 8128 - Query word States

few years he was a recognized party leader. The idol of his friends,
    Line 8129 - Query word friends

he was hated by many of his opponents whose opinions had been roughly
    Line 8130 - Query word opinions

The greeting between the old men was cordial. They had many questions
    Line 8133 - Query word questions

gray, though he had retained his bodily vigor. Mrs. Grippin had to
    Line 8137 - Query word gray

talked with such abstraction, as he waited on the visitors, that he
    Line 8141 - Query word visitors

deluged with a profuse quantity of gravy. After dinner he and Mallard
    Line 8146 - Query word Mallard

"Well, George," said the major, "I suppose you are confident of being
    Line 8150 - Query word George

"Well, George," said the major, "I suppose you are confident of being
    Line 8150 - Query word confident

re-elected in January."
    Line 8151 - Query word elected

"I am confident that I shall not again be re-elected," replied
    Line 8153 - Query word confident

"I am confident that I shall not again be re-elected," replied
    Line 8153 - Query word elected

Mallard. "For nearly forty years, with scarcely an intermission I
    Line 8154 - Query word Mallard

"There are many who aspire to be tied with the bonds of national
    Line 8158 - Query word bonds

"Neither all nor the greater part of political power," returned
    Line 8163 - Query word political

Mallard, "is wielded by officials acting in an official capacity.
    Line 8164 - Query word Mallard

Mallard, "is wielded by officials acting in an official capacity.
    Line 8164 - Query word wielded

moulding influence of the Press and of those thinkers who study and
    Line 8166 - Query word study

his conscience and popular sentiment are antagonistic, it is his duty
    Line 8168 - Query word conscience

to yield to the former; but he who habitually disregards the wishes
    Line 8169 - Query word yield

of his constituents will soon destroy his political career."
    Line 8170 - Query word political

"The responsibility to constituents," said Ratke, "is our great
    Line 8172 - Query word responsibility

party would be wholly unscrupulous in its disregard of precedent. The
    Line 8174 - Query word unscrupulous

organization of which you are a leader has repeatedly violated the
    Line 8175 - Query word organization

constitution and is advocating principles which, if carried out, will
    Line 8176 - Query word advocating

This provoked a spirited reply from Mallard, which in turn elicited a
    Line 8179 - Query word spirited

This provoked a spirited reply from Mallard, which in turn elicited a
    Line 8179 - Query word Mallard

This provoked a spirited reply from Mallard, which in turn elicited a
    Line 8179 - Query word elicited

"Very well," answered Mallard, "'Congress shall have power to make
    Line 8188 - Query word Mallard

execution the foregoing powers, and all other powers vested by this
    Line 8190 - Query word execution

constitution in the government of the United States, or in any
    Line 8191 - Query word States

impracticable, on account of the limited space in the instrument and
    Line 8194 - Query word limited

the inability of its framers to tell with any certainty what
    Line 8195 - Query word certainty

exigencies may arise. This provision, had it not been inserted, would
    Line 8196 - Query word provision

visitors from an outburst of passion, "I'm waiting for that wood."
    Line 8201 - Query word visitors

serve our partisan purposes,' An undue concentration of national
    Line 8207 - Query word serve

serve our partisan purposes,' An undue concentration of national
    Line 8207 - Query word purposes

serve our partisan purposes,' An undue concentration of national
    Line 8207 - Query word concentration

"I can carry the larger load," said Mallard, laughing, as Ratke
    Line 8215 - Query word Mallard

descended the back steps. "In our younger days we tried feats of
    Line 8216 - Query word descended

descended the back steps. "In our younger days we tried feats of
    Line 8216 - Query word tried

strength, but I am not used to them now."
    Line 8217 - Query word strength

housekeeper took pains to find several tasks for her brother, that
    Line 8221 - Query word tasks

Mallard, for, though she professed great dislike of his argumentative
    Line 8223 - Query word Mallard

Mallard, for, though she professed great dislike of his argumentative
    Line 8223 - Query word dislike

Mallard, for, though she professed great dislike of his argumentative
    Line 8223 - Query word argumentative

habits, she was secretly proud of his proficiency.
    Line 8224 - Query word habits

"George," said the major, when they had left the house, "a great
    Line 8226 - Query word George

career is sometimes late in its commencement, is it not?"
    Line 8227 - Query word commencement

"Certainly," responded Mallard, "history furnishes many such
    Line 8229 - Query word Mallard

through forests and across lakes, by ancient earth works and mounds,
    Line 8239 - Query word lakes

in which are the relics of extinct races. This locality, I think,
    Line 8240 - Query word relics

in which are the relics of extinct races. This locality, I think,
    Line 8240 - Query word races

in which are the relics of extinct races. This locality, I think,
    Line 8240 - Query word locality

would furnish to a string imagination material for a grand epic."
    Line 8241 - Query word furnish

would furnish to a string imagination material for a grand epic."
    Line 8241 - Query word grand

"Your guess is incorrect," said Ratke. "The title of the work which I
    Line 8243 - Query word incorrect

am writing is 'Nature Concordia Philosophiae Animi.' In two volumes I
    Line 8244 - Query word writing

am undertaking to prove that every phenomenon of nature has a
    Line 8245 - Query word undertaking

relativity of physics and metaphysics, volume two, of the relation of
    Line 8247 - Query word relation

physical laws to the will and higher emotions. The moral treatise I
    Line 8248 - Query word treatise

finished first, more than a year ago, in fact.
    Line 8249 - Query word fact

"In its preparation I was obliged to refer to no modern language
    Line 8251 - Query word modern

except our own. English is rich in dissertations of the soul, but it
    Line 8252 - Query word English

furnishes little to the science of mental phenomena. In order to
    Line 8253 - Query word science

furnishes little to the science of mental phenomena. In order to
    Line 8253 - Query word phenomena

German. You know I am deficient in that language. I was helped in my
    Line 8255 - Query word helped

stir at Break o' Day."
    Line 8257 - Query word stir

That night the old men sat up until after twelve o' clock talking of
    Line 8259 - Query word twelve

dead, some honored, some disgraced. Their faces kindled with fervor
    Line 8263 - Query word honored

dead, some honored, some disgraced. Their faces kindled with fervor
    Line 8263 - Query word disgraced

of youth, their tones and gestures were animated; they were no longer
    Line 8264 - Query word gestures

of youth, their tones and gestures were animated; they were no longer
    Line 8264 - Query word animated

when they witnessed the incidents. Unrealized ambitions, triumphs in
    Line 8266 - Query word incidents

when they witnessed the incidents. Unrealized ambitions, triumphs in
    Line 8266 - Query word triumphs

the lyceum and in class-room, petty dissensions with their fellows,
    Line 8267 - Query word petty

describing later events. At every visit since their graduation, they
    Line 8269 - Query word later

had gone over these same experiences. Each recital had exceeded its
    Line 8270 - Query word recital

predecessor in the pleasure which it had imparted and the earnestness
    Line 8271 - Query word predecessor

predecessor in the pleasure which it had imparted and the earnestness
    Line 8271 - Query word pleasure

predecessor in the pleasure which it had imparted and the earnestness
    Line 8271 - Query word imparted

predecessor in the pleasure which it had imparted and the earnestness
    Line 8271 - Query word earnestness

with which it had been delivered. Only three days before, Mallard had
    Line 8272 - Query word delivered

with which it had been delivered. Only three days before, Mallard had
    Line 8272 - Query word Mallard

the papers throughout the entire country and to be repeated in
    Line 8274 - Query word entire

substance on the platform by the minor satellites of his party. Now
    Line 8275 - Query word platform

his dignity was laid aside, he was mirthful, even boyish, in his
    Line 8276 - Query word mirthful

his dignity was laid aside, he was mirthful, even boyish, in his
    Line 8276 - Query word boyish

actions.
    Line 8277 - Query word actions

"George," said Ratke, "you remember that we confided our aspirations
    Line 8279 - Query word George

to each other. Mine have promised much, but yielded nothing. You have
    Line 8280 - Query word yielded

accomplished what you set out to accomplish. You must be a happy
    Line 8281 - Query word accomplished

accomplished what you set out to accomplish. You must be a happy
    Line 8281 - Query word accomplish

"You judge too hastily," returned Mallard. "I have money, I have a
    Line 8284 - Query word judge

"You judge too hastily," returned Mallard. "I have money, I have a
    Line 8284 - Query word Mallard

fair reputation, but I have been unfortunate in my family affairs. I
    Line 8285 - Query word reputation

kept him at school and gave him every advantage. He excelled in his
    Line 8288 - Query word excelled

studies. He had a special liking for rhetoric and argument. I meant
    Line 8289 - Query word studies

to train him to be a statesman. I believed that he would exceed me in
    Line 8290 - Query word train

fame and power as Alexander exceeded Philip. But he took to drink. He
    Line 8291 - Query word drink

daughter who was as amiable as she was beautiful and accomplished.
    Line 8293 - Query word accomplished

took music lessons at Detroit. When she came home, she told me about
    Line 8295 - Query word lessons

some attentions which had been paid her by a young foreigner, a
    Line 8296 - Query word attentions

German. I cautioned her to accept no more of his addresses until I
    Line 8297 - Query word cautioned

German. I cautioned her to accept no more of his addresses until I
    Line 8297 - Query word addresses

gentlemen in a hotel. You know before the war I was not in favor of
    Line 8299 - Query word gentlemen

immediate abolition, I was advocating the principles of the
    Line 8300 - Query word advocating

abuse. Saying that I had no wish to discuss a question with one who
    Line 8303 - Query word discuss

communication with him, that if she did, she could no longer stay
    Line 8309 - Query word communication

under the protection of my roof. A week after that they eloped. I
    Line 8310 - Query word roof

made no attempt to follow them, but Eliza wrote me that they had gone
    Line 8311 - Query word wrote

to Detroit, and the newspapers, of course, tracked them up and put in
    Line 8312 - Query word newspapers

to Detroit, and the newspapers, of course, tracked them up and put in
    Line 8312 - Query word tracked

every mouth the story of my new disgrace. I would have welcomed them
    Line 8313 - Query word welcomed

back had it not been for my positive declaration that I would not do
    Line 8314 - Query word positive

in a paper which stated that they had been killed two months
    Line 8316 - Query word months

previously in a railroad accident at Chicago. An enterprising
    Line 8317 - Query word accident

reporter had had his attention riveted by the names of the victims,
    Line 8318 - Query word victims

surmise of the reporter was correct. I took up the bodies, which are
    Line 8321 - Query word surmise

now in the Lansing cemetery. Never measure happiness by fame or
    Line 8322 - Query word happiness

apparent success."
    Line 8323 - Query word apparent

The next morning the major to no avail urged his guests to prolong
    Line 8325 - Query word avail

their visit. He did, however, extract a promise that Mallard would
    Line 8326 - Query word extract

their visit. He did, however, extract a promise that Mallard would
    Line 8326 - Query word Mallard

make a more extended stay the succeeding summer. As the senator and
    Line 8327 - Query word succeeding

"Good morning, Senator," was the peddler's familiar salutation. "How
    Line 8331 - Query word familiar

"Very well," answered Mallard. "How is your health, Mr. Dabney?"
    Line 8334 - Query word Mallard

"Very well," answered Mallard. "How is your health, Mr. Dabney?"
    Line 8334 - Query word Dabney

"Extra," said Panicky. "I am exposed enough to kill three common men,
    Line 8336 - Query word exposed

"You can as well as not," replied Mallard, "if you can sit in the
    Line 8340 - Query word Mallard

uncomfortable way of riding, but it is the best I can provide for
    Line 8342 - Query word riding

you, Mr. Dabney."
    Line 8343 - Query word Dabney

"I hope you will come back again soon," said Ratke as they shook
    Line 8348 - Query word shook

"You sold me some panacea for them, Dabney," said Mallard with a
    Line 8356 - Query word Dabney

"You sold me some panacea for them, Dabney," said Mallard with a
    Line 8356 - Query word Mallard

Democrat, for that matter. If If could hear you get off the same
    Line 8361 - Query word Democrat

think you would try to make a sale at every house."
    Line 8367 - Query word sale

little while ago. I'm going to turn off up hovered past Takum's. I
    Line 8370 - Query word past

don't have to peddle the panacea much. It sells itself."
    Line 8371 - Query word sells

Mallard's team was young and spirited. Constantly on the alert for
    Line 8373 - Query word Mallard's

Mallard's team was young and spirited. Constantly on the alert for
    Line 8373 - Query word spirited

Mallard's team was young and spirited. Constantly on the alert for
    Line 8373 - Query word Constantly

Mallard's team was young and spirited. Constantly on the alert for
    Line 8373 - Query word alert

heads high and drew the buggy along at a sharp pace. In the road near
    Line 8375 - Query word pace

of a size that there was no perceptible difference in their ages.
    Line 8377 - Query word perceptible

of a size that there was no perceptible difference in their ages.
    Line 8377 - Query word ages

They were seated, or squatted, exactly in the track, and they moved
    Line 8378 - Query word squatted

face and suddenly rising, jerked it down, throwing a cloud of dust
    Line 8381 - Query word jerked

almost against the fractious team. The horses jumped forward,
    Line 8382 - Query word jumped

determined to flee from the unwonted spectacle. They were in a fair
    Line 8383 - Query word flee

determined to flee from the unwonted spectacle. They were in a fair
    Line 8383 - Query word unwonted

way to be quieted when the whole troop of Takum's dogs, large and
    Line 8384 - Query word quieted

way to be quieted when the whole troop of Takum's dogs, large and
    Line 8384 - Query word troop

would have been manageable by Mallard's strong arm had not accident
    Line 8386 - Query word Mallard's

would have been manageable by Mallard's strong arm had not accident
    Line 8386 - Query word accident

aided them in their insubordination. The left-line snapped in twain,
    Line 8387 - Query word insubordination

aided them in their insubordination. The left-line snapped in twain,
    Line 8387 - Query word twain

large stone, and the buggy was overturned.
    Line 8389 - Query word overturned

knee struck a small stump which was inconveniently near. He groaned
    Line 8393 - Query word knee

knee struck a small stump which was inconveniently near. He groaned
    Line 8393 - Query word groaned

realizing her attentions. The Ratke family and Brown ran as soon as
    Line 8401 - Query word attentions

possible to the scene of the accident, Nora in advance of them all.
    Line 8402 - Query word accident

Bitterly did Ratke regret his expressed wish that, with or against
    Line 8406 - Query word Bitterly

his will. Mallard would soon return. The stalwart frame, the hands he
    Line 8407 - Query word Mallard

had pressed in farewell, the features, the changes of which he had
    Line 8408 - Query word pressed

indeed, come back; but tied in the bonds of inertness, they could not
    Line 8410 - Query word bonds

not dead. In the course of an hour he had the satisfaction of seeing
    Line 8412 - Query word seeing

Daggett was in the tamaracks by the road cutting poles when his
    Line 8415 - Query word cutting

attention was drawn by the sound of rapidly approaching hoofs.
    Line 8416 - Query word hoofs

Dropping his ax, he rushed to the highway just in time to catch the
    Line 8417 - Query word Dropping

them back toward Ratke's. The overturned buggy and the groaning
    Line 8419 - Query word overturned

them back toward Ratke's. The overturned buggy and the groaning
    Line 8419 - Query word groaning

peddler were sufficient to explain the catastrophe.
    Line 8420 - Query word explain

seated on the ground, holding his knee and rocking back and forth.
    Line 8423 - Query word holding

seated on the ground, holding his knee and rocking back and forth.
    Line 8423 - Query word knee

"Oh, I'm about dead!" moaned Panicky. "I'm fixed! My leg's broke! I
    Line 8425 - Query word fixed

know it is! Oh, that's awful! You don't know how I suffer! Oh, I'm
    Line 8426 - Query word suffer

laid up for life! Oh, I won't do another tap of work for six months!"
    Line 8427 - Query word months

medicine is compounded of pine, hemlock, tamarack, cedar and spruce,
    Line 8432 - Query word compounded

medicine is compounded of pine, hemlock, tamarack, cedar and spruce,
    Line 8432 - Query word hemlock

medicine is compounded of pine, hemlock, tamarack, cedar and spruce,
    Line 8432 - Query word cedar

besides sovereign roots and herbs known to the medical fraternity. It
    Line 8433 - Query word roots

besides sovereign roots and herbs known to the medical fraternity. It
    Line 8433 - Query word herbs

besides sovereign roots and herbs known to the medical fraternity. It
    Line 8433 - Query word medical

besides sovereign roots and herbs known to the medical fraternity. It
    Line 8433 - Query word fraternity

cures cuts, bruises, sprains, wounds, incisions and all injuries to
    Line 8434 - Query word injuries

excellent tonic for consumption, dyspepsia, liver-complaint,
    Line 8437 - Query word tonic

excellent tonic for consumption, dyspepsia, liver-complaint,
    Line 8437 - Query word dyspepsia

excellent tonic for consumption, dyspepsia, liver-complaint,
    Line 8437 - Query word complaint

"If your knee was like mine, you wouldn't make fun of it," returned
    Line 8440 - Query word knee

Panicky. "Oh, the whole top of my knee's smashed! Oh, I won't do
    Line 8441 - Query word smashed

another tap of work for two months!"
    Line 8442 - Query word months

no time, I know a fellow over in Ingham, a log rolled over his leg,
    Line 8445 - Query word Ingham

smashed the whole business fine, bones, skin, flesh and all. The
    Line 8446 - Query word smashed

smashed the whole business fine, bones, skin, flesh and all. The
    Line 8446 - Query word bones

panacea. Well, the next week was the Fourth of July, and he took the
    Line 8448 - Query word Fourth

he beat the best mile record by three seconds. Have a bottle, Mister.
    Line 8450 - Query word Mister

"I guess I will rub some of the panacea on my knee," said the
    Line 8454 - Query word knee

peddler, taking the broken bottle with a grin. "That feels a good
    Line 8455 - Query word grin

peddler, taking the broken bottle with a grin. "That feels a good
    Line 8455 - Query word feels

deal better," he acknowledged, as he arose after applying his
    Line 8456 - Query word acknowledged

with the strap over his shoulder connecting the two burdens, he was
    Line 8460 - Query word connecting

Mallard declared that he was able to recommence his journey. Ratke
    Line 8464 - Query word Mallard

Mallard declared that he was able to recommence his journey. Ratke
    Line 8464 - Query word journey

protested, but to no avail. He did, however, induce the senator to
    Line 8465 - Query word protested

protested, but to no avail. He did, however, induce the senator to
    Line 8465 - Query word avail

protested, but to no avail. He did, however, induce the senator to
    Line 8465 - Query word induce

considered a fair horseman, to drive the team to Lansing.
    Line 8467 - Query word horseman

CHAPTER XXII.
    Line 8470 - Query word XXII

ACTION IS EQUAL TO REACTION.
    Line 8471 - Query word REACTION

The dry weather continued. In the memory of the oldest inhabitant
    Line 8473 - Query word memory

The dry weather continued. In the memory of the oldest inhabitant
    Line 8473 - Query word oldest

there had not been so long an interval without rain. Cattle and sheep
    Line 8474 - Query word interval

sought the protection of shade. Stunted and withered, the corn leaves
    Line 8475 - Query word shade

rolled upward to hold the scanty supply of dew which fell, but it was
    Line 8476 - Query word scanty

sucked away by the sun; and their need of drink was still
    Line 8477 - Query word drink

unfurnished. In the road timothy and June grass were dried and lopped
    Line 8478 - Query word dried

thickly powdered with sand, yellow along its blades, showing green
    Line 8480 - Query word showing

near its roots, even through its veil of dirt. Clouds of dust were
    Line 8481 - Query word roots

vehicles and from drags and cultivators at work on the moistureless
    Line 8483 - Query word vehicles

summer fallows. The smell of burning marshes was in the air. Fire,
    Line 8484 - Query word smell

their farmer's toil.
    Line 8487 - Query word toil

nature. Vegetation was draped in dirt; so that grass and tree, plowed
    Line 8490 - Query word plowed

seemed to share the general taint, as if the eye were constantly
    Line 8492 - Query word eye

seemed to share the general taint, as if the eye were constantly
    Line 8492 - Query word constantly

haze of smoke, a connecting shade between cerulean and green, which
    Line 8494 - Query word connecting

haze of smoke, a connecting shade between cerulean and green, which
    Line 8494 - Query word shade

made less marked their division where the tree-tops cut an irregular
    Line 8495 - Query word irregular

border in the sky.
    Line 8496 - Query word sky

the people had liberally contributed. Then a great smoke arose from
    Line 8500 - Query word liberally

the people had liberally contributed. Then a great smoke arose from
    Line 8500 - Query word contributed

poorer success. A fortunate merchant who had escaped without loss
    Line 8503 - Query word fortunate

note was due, and his impatient creditors had threatened him. "They
    Line 8507 - Query word due

note was due, and his impatient creditors had threatened him. "They
    Line 8507 - Query word impatient

note was due, and his impatient creditors had threatened him. "They
    Line 8507 - Query word creditors

reluctance that his employer saw him take the train at Barton
    Line 8512 - Query word train

order to satisfy Durgenson, who, he feared, would drive him from his
    Line 8517 - Query word feared

a view to purchasing would examine the New Jerusalem. As was related
    Line 8519 - Query word examine

had come to the major from Madgeburg, Indiana, stating that a
    Line 8522 - Query word stating

representative of the wagon-works in that city would be in Sharptown
    Line 8523 - Query word representative

House, they might negotiate a sale. The letter was signed J.
    Line 8525 - Query word sale

Boutwell, president. On the note-head was printed J. Boutwell,
    Line 8526 - Query word president

Boutwell, president. On the note-head was printed J. Boutwell,
    Line 8526 - Query word printed

President; T. C. Parker, Treasurer.
    Line 8527 - Query word President

President; T. C. Parker, Treasurer.
    Line 8527 - Query word C

"Fortune is with me, Maria," said the philosopher. "The Madgeburg
    Line 8529 - Query word Fortune

rather have a percentage on the sales than to sell for cash."
    Line 8533 - Query word cash

got to say about him. He isn't fit to be president of any wagon
    Line 8536 - Query word president

The major order Daggett to harness Taylor and Bill to the New
    Line 8539 - Query word harness

Jerusalem. With approbation he looked over its low boxes and its high
    Line 8540 - Query word approbation

Jerusalem. With approbation he looked over its low boxes and its high
    Line 8540 - Query word boxes

posts and wheels. He had taken it from the shop still unpainted
    Line 8541 - Query word unpainted

examination.
    Line 8543 - Query word examination

mate at the top. The wheels had been favored with limited provisions
    Line 8549 - Query word limited

mate at the top. The wheels had been favored with limited provisions
    Line 8549 - Query word provisions

for greasing; and one of them emitted at every revolution three
    Line 8550 - Query word revolution

squeaks, the first two short and spirited, the last dolorous and
    Line 8551 - Query word spirited

squeaks, the first two short and spirited, the last dolorous and
    Line 8551 - Query word dolorous

prolonged.
    Line 8552 - Query word prolonged

The major's neighbors did not gratify him by manifesting surprise.
    Line 8554 - Query word manifesting

something of a sensation. Some of the citizens came out and delighted
    Line 8556 - Query word sensation

something of a sensation. Some of the citizens came out and delighted
    Line 8556 - Query word delighted

him by making minute inquiries. The boys were especially pleased with
    Line 8557 - Query word inquiries

But their companions remembering the peanuts and candy which the
    Line 8560 - Query word companions

But their companions remembering the peanuts and candy which the
    Line 8560 - Query word remembering

and the New Jerusalem a triumphal car. All along the route the
    Line 8565 - Query word car

who did not suspend his play, no woman whose face was not pressed
    Line 8567 - Query word pressed

close to a window or thrust through a door, no man who did not pause
    Line 8568 - Query word thrust

in his work and follow the wonderful sight with his eye until it had
    Line 8569 - Query word eye

she could hear her class without taking her gaze from the old man who
    Line 8574 - Query word gaze

vociferously at his horses until they stopped. The gang of hands left
    Line 8579 - Query word gang

their places to examine the new wonder. The major obtained an oil can
    Line 8580 - Query word examine

their places to examine the new wonder. The major obtained an oil can
    Line 8580 - Query word oil

the closely fitting posts would not allow him properly to apply the
    Line 8582 - Query word apply

oil.
    Line 8583 - Query word oil

No interest which he had aroused was worthy of comparison with that
    Line 8585 - Query word aroused

No interest which he had aroused was worthy of comparison with that
    Line 8585 - Query word worthy

which contained two thousand inhabitants, was situated on the crest
    Line 8587 - Query word inhabitants

of a gradual slope. When Ratke entered the outskirts, several
    Line 8588 - Query word gradual

pedestrians were walking along the one side of the street which had a
    Line 8589 - Query word street

cross-streets. Farther on there was a walk on either side, and the
    Line 8591 - Query word streets

slow-moving procession, met and turning, joined the tide which, made
    Line 8593 - Query word slow

slow-moving procession, met and turning, joined the tide which, made
    Line 8593 - Query word procession

up of footmen, horses and vehicles, filled the sidewalks and the
    Line 8594 - Query word vehicles

street and confined travel to one direction.
    Line 8595 - Query word street

street and confined travel to one direction.
    Line 8595 - Query word travel

A philosophic Scipio, the major leaned back in his car and viewed the
    Line 8597 - Query word car

homage which the gaping multitude unwittingly tendered him. He
    Line 8598 - Query word homage

homage which the gaping multitude unwittingly tendered him. He
    Line 8598 - Query word unwittingly

preferred, therefore, to compare himself to Caesar. Before him was a
    Line 8600 - Query word Caesar

common wagon loaded with wheat. Anciently the conquered foe walked
    Line 8601 - Query word loaded

common wagon loaded with wheat. Anciently the conquered foe walked
    Line 8601 - Query word conquered

a conquering hero. The horses obscured his vision, and he was obliged
    Line 8607 - Query word obscured

When the proud inventor stopped on Main Street, the most prominent
    Line 8611 - Query word Street

merchants came out to meet him. There, surrounded by the wondering
    Line 8612 - Query word merchants

lightness of draught, its adaptation to the farm and to the city.
    Line 8614 - Query word lightness

asked half the questions which they wished to propound, he drove to
    Line 8617 - Query word questions

The hotel which had been appointed as the place of meeting, was the
    Line 8621 - Query word appointed

he found the president of the Madgeburg wagon works. Mr. Boutwell was
    Line 8623 - Query word president

had he shown more of the agent's flattery and less of the buyer's
    Line 8626 - Query word agent's

independence. Still, he was equally independent in the negotiation,
    Line 8627 - Query word independent

"I'm glad you've come," said Br. Boutwell. "My nephew got hold of an
    Line 8631 - Query word nephew

excellent buildings. A grasping farmer was ready to buy it for his
    Line 8658 - Query word grasping

value. The cashier of the Second National Bank handed out a number of
    Line 8661 - Query word Bank

value. The cashier of the Second National Bank handed out a number of
    Line 8661 - Query word handed

bills, which Ratke put into a bag. The bag was light, but the heart
    Line 8662 - Query word bag

bills, which Ratke put into a bag. The bag was light, but the heart
    Line 8662 - Query word bag

As their acquaintance was prolonged, Mr. Boutwell became more
    Line 8669 - Query word acquaintance

As their acquaintance was prolonged, Mr. Boutwell became more
    Line 8669 - Query word prolonged

Boutwell. "Some may not like Comstock. I think he does pretty well."
    Line 8687 - Query word pretty

"First-rate," ventured Mr. Boutwell, thinking that he now heard the
    Line 8691 - Query word ventured

philosopher. What do you think of his work, the Leviathan?"
    Line 8695 - Query word Leviathan

"If I remember rightly," said Boutwell, "it has a fine description of
    Line 8697 - Query word description

The major concluded that Mr. Boutwell had given his entire energies
    Line 8700 - Query word entire

my wagon. In that case, I can expect an offer from you of not more
    Line 8703 - Query word expect

could write pretty well. Now, am I right? Isn't his work in good
    Line 8707 - Query word pretty

style?"
    Line 8708 - Query word style

"A good style of its class," answered Ratke. "He attempts no
    Line 8710 - Query word style

Boutwell, "and as for rationation, that's away beyond my depth. I can
    Line 8714 - Query word depth

Ratke did not decline the manufacturer's invitation. They ate slowly,
    Line 8719 - Query word invitation

and lingered about the table after their appetites were satisfied.
    Line 8720 - Query word appetites

there. We can test it in every way you wish."
    Line 8723 - Query word test

Ratke waited for the president of the wagon works to write his
    Line 8729 - Query word president

letter. He had not purchased one of the articles for which Mrs.
    Line 8730 - Query word purchased

errands. At twilight he and Mr. Boutwell descended to the wagon, to
    Line 8732 - Query word descended

"Yes," responded Mr. Boutwell, "nobody will dispute that. But what is
    Line 8737 - Query word dispute

the matter with the boxes?"
    Line 8738 - Query word boxes

other designs. On the rear one had been pasted some enormous
    Line 8741 - Query word enormous

"The man that done that ought to be prosecuted," remarked the
    Line 8744 - Query word prosecuted

"It was quite likely, done by boys. They meant no harm and did
    Line 8748 - Query word likely

angling road leading from Main Street to Break o'Day, "that the wagon
    Line 8753 - Query word angling

angling road leading from Main Street to Break o'Day, "that the wagon
    Line 8753 - Query word Street

parts in the forward box, the rear parts in the rear box. Of course,
    Line 8758 - Query word parts

parts in the forward box, the rear parts in the rear box. Of course,
    Line 8758 - Query word parts

The intensity of stress on the wagon, too, is inconsiderable. It is,
    Line 8761 - Query word intensity

The intensity of stress on the wagon, too, is inconsiderable. It is,
    Line 8761 - Query word stress

square. Land T, you observe, in this case are very large in
    Line 8763 - Query word observe

proportion to M. And the poles can be so conveniently loaded. You
    Line 8764 - Query word loaded

How many ruptures and strains would be saved if men could load wheat
    Line 8766 - Query word strains

into this wagon. After we get home, we will haul poles until you are
    Line 8767 - Query word haul

"I can think of several uses which they have," said Ratke. "They make
    Line 8773 - Query word uses

this would be the best wagon in the world for public occasions, such
    Line 8775 - Query word occasions

as the Fourth of July. Flags and banners could be attached to the
    Line 8776 - Query word Fourth

good chance to act. Its point of application is low. And it lessens
    Line 8782 - Query word lessens

the pressure on the wheels. The six-foot wheel and the two-inch
    Line 8783 - Query word inch

pivot, too, form another great advantage, as they materially lessen
    Line 8784 - Query word lessen

the friction. Every time a wheel revolves, one fourth the weight of
    Line 8785 - Query word fourth

three inches. In the New Jerusalem the load is propelled seventy-two
    Line 8789 - Query word propelled

three inches. In the New Jerusalem the load is propelled seventy-two
    Line 8789 - Query word seventy

the common wagon the load is propelled sixty-inches, while the
    Line 8791 - Query word propelled

transportation is thirty-six. In the common wagon it is twenty."
    Line 8794 - Query word transportation

power at the spindle or pivot from sliding to rolling friction. But
    Line 8800 - Query word sliding

power at the spindle or pivot from sliding to rolling friction. But
    Line 8800 - Query word rolling

sliding friction they are calculated to prevent. Thus we exchange the
    Line 8802 - Query word sliding

sliding friction for both sliding and rolling friction."
    Line 8803 - Query word sliding

sliding friction for both sliding and rolling friction."
    Line 8803 - Query word sliding

sliding friction for both sliding and rolling friction."
    Line 8803 - Query word rolling

"Fair," said Ratke, in a way which intimated that he was stating
    Line 8811 - Query word stating

"Charge," said the major in a quiet tone.
    Line 8818 - Query word Charge

The wagon started with such suddenness that the sleek manufacturer
    Line 8820 - Query word suddenness

was jerked violently backward. His beaver fell and was run over by
    Line 8821 - Query word jerked

the hind wheel. The president of the wagon works clutched the side of
    Line 8822 - Query word president

the box and remonstrated with Ratke on his fast driving. "Oh, I
    Line 8823 - Query word remonstrated

the box and remonstrated with Ratke on his fast driving. "Oh, I
    Line 8823 - Query word driving

"That's useless fast driving," he said. "It's unreasonable in hot
    Line 8835 - Query word driving

"That's useless fast driving," he said. "It's unreasonable in hot
    Line 8835 - Query word unreasonable

hat which, with its crown crushed in, was quite ruined.
    Line 8837 - Query word ruined

The major, stopping at Birch & Bigney's store, purchased a hat for
    Line 8839 - Query word purchased

for the misfortune of his companion, who, intent on the transaction
    Line 8842 - Query word misfortune

for the misfortune of his companion, who, intent on the transaction
    Line 8842 - Query word intent

wished that the company had sent another man, whose criticism was
    Line 8844 - Query word criticism

less free.
    Line 8845 - Query word free

if there wasn't much of a chance to grease the wheels. Your machinist
    Line 8848 - Query word machinist

"I can soon fix the wheels so we can grease them," said the major.
    Line 8851 - Query word fix

that the pitch of the squeak is high, on the key of C, I think. There
    Line 8853 - Query word C

"When you understand one principle you will be all right to ride with
    Line 8871 - Query word principle

me," said Ratke. 'Action is equal to reaction, and in a contrary
    Line 8872 - Query word reaction

direction.' What you must guard against is reaction. It was reaction
    Line 8873 - Query word reaction

direction.' What you must guard against is reaction. It was reaction
    Line 8873 - Query word reaction

elsewhere than in the physical world. A man is persecuted by society.
    Line 8875 - Query word elsewhere

equal to reaction and in a contrary direction.'"
    Line 8879 - Query word reaction

order to stop. The president of the wagon works placed his hands on
    Line 8885 - Query word president

knee astride his body and grasped his arms.
    Line 8887 - Query word knee

with a grin. "I've got to get back to Madgeburg to oversee the wagon
    Line 8890 - Query word grin

They were in the center of the swamp, the lights in the farm-houses
    Line 8893 - Query word lights

had gone out, and interference was not likely to come. Ratke was not
    Line 8894 - Query word likely

basely betrayed his confidence.
    Line 8897 - Query word betrayed

"I want you to fork over that money," said Mr. Boutwell, "and don't
    Line 8899 - Query word fork

sliding friction and rolling friction. Now slide or roll out that
    Line 8914 - Query word sliding

sliding friction and rolling friction. Now slide or roll out that
    Line 8914 - Query word rolling

sliding friction and rolling friction. Now slide or roll out that
    Line 8914 - Query word slide

sliding friction and rolling friction. Now slide or roll out that
    Line 8914 - Query word roll

blow under the eye. With the blood trickling down his cheek Ratke
    Line 8919 - Query word eye

blow under the eye. With the blood trickling down his cheek Ratke
    Line 8919 - Query word trickling

strove to rise.
    Line 8920 - Query word rise

"Now," said Boutwell, "you stop kicking around and do as I tell you
    Line 8922 - Query word kicking

"Charge!" shouted the major. At that magic word the wheels of the New
    Line 8926 - Query word Charge

in one, which was shrill, continuous and ear-splitting. Mr. Boutwell
    Line 8928 - Query word ear

threw him off his balance; and before he recovered himself, the old
    Line 8932 - Query word balance

man, whose strength he had under-estimated, rolled him and began to
    Line 8933 - Query word strength

man, whose strength he had under-estimated, rolled him and began to
    Line 8933 - Query word estimated

reaction and in a contrary direction.' Halt."
    Line 8941 - Query word reaction

had demoralized Boutwell, and the hind wheels were far back on the
    Line 8945 - Query word demoralized

causeway. A thick cloud of dust hovered over the road along which
    Line 8946 - Query word causeway

"I will send one of my men down after it to-morrow," said Ratke. "We
    Line 8949 - Query word morrow

search your pockets."
    Line 8951 - Query word pockets

Ratke, after taking two revolvers from the pockets of his new
    Line 8953 - Query word pockets

acquaintance, drove on in silence. At the large gate by the house he
    Line 8954 - Query word acquaintance

CHAPTER XXIII.
    Line 8958 - Query word XXIII

ONE HOUR OF BLISS.
    Line 8959 - Query word BLISS

By Mrs. Boyle's clock it lacked twenty-two minutes of midnight. It
    Line 8961 - Query word Boyle's

By Mrs. Boyle's clock it lacked twenty-two minutes of midnight. It
    Line 8961 - Query word midnight

flitting about the lamp. The two human occupants of the house were
    Line 8964 - Query word occupants

"You say he is not my son," said Mrs. Boyle. "You talk as if you
    Line 8968 - Query word Boyle

He noticed with pleasure that she called him John. "So I do know," he
    Line 8971 - Query word pleasure

replied. "A dull man ought to be able to tell that. When I am
    Line 8972 - Query word dull

"No," said John earnestly, "I never will."
    Line 8980 - Query word earnestly

"Then, if you're not sleepy," said Mrs. Boyle, "I will tell you the
    Line 8982 - Query word Boyle

whole story. When Mr. Boyle was alive, we stayed several years in
    Line 8983 - Query word Boyle

whole story. When Mr. Boyle was alive, we stayed several years in
    Line 8983 - Query word alive

characters. They both drank and stole. They would quarrel and
    Line 8986 - Query word characters

much. Then, if Mr. Boyle was at home, he would go over to see about
    Line 8989 - Query word Boyle

affairs. Finally he pounded her so that he was arrested and sent to
    Line 8992 - Query word Finally

affairs. Finally he pounded her so that he was arrested and sent to
    Line 8992 - Query word arrested

against her. She was sent to. the penitentiary for a year. It was
    Line 8998 - Query word penitentiary

Mrs. Boyle gave John an account of her and her protege since Mr.
    Line 9004 - Query word Boyle

Boyle's death, of their removal to Michigan, of Alf's growing
    Line 9005 - Query word Boyle's

Boyle's death, of their removal to Michigan, of Alf's growing
    Line 9005 - Query word removal

depravity, which he manifested even in his early childhood.
    Line 9006 - Query word early

depravity, which he manifested even in his early childhood.
    Line 9006 - Query word childhood

"I know he has got into some awful trouble," said Mrs. Boyle. "I
    Line 9012 - Query word Boyle

don't expect him back very soon. But if he comes, you must stay
    Line 9013 - Query word expect

"Then he certainly will kill you," said Mrs. Boyle. "You don't know
    Line 9020 - Query word Boyle

the life of a chipmunk, or a toad, or a fly, or anything, no matter
    Line 9022 - Query word chipmunk

that Mrs. Boyle's estimate of the ruffian's character was correct.
    Line 9026 - Query word Boyle's

that Mrs. Boyle's estimate of the ruffian's character was correct.
    Line 9026 - Query word estimate

He thought long of her words. Until then, motherless, not quite
    Line 9033 - Query word motherless

friendless, he had yearned for that sympathy which, coming only from
    Line 9034 - Query word friendless

suffering almost desirable, that the joy of healing may be
    Line 9036 - Query word healing

experienced. Instinct had told him that he needed it. Other boys had
    Line 9037 - Query word experienced

been petted and caressed while he had been kicked and cursed. Now,
    Line 9038 - Query word kicked

when boyhood was passed, he had found a foster-mother who was kinder
    Line 9039 - Query word boyhood

when boyhood was passed, he had found a foster-mother who was kinder
    Line 9039 - Query word foster

still clung to him, how much of misery would he have escaped.
    Line 9044 - Query word clung

across the clearing and inquired for Alfred Boyle. After satisfying
    Line 9047 - Query word Boyle

themselves by inquiries that he was not in the house, and informing
    Line 9048 - Query word inquiries

Mrs. Boyle that he was wanted for robbery at Birch & Bigney's store,
    Line 9049 - Query word Boyle

"You can come down, John," said Mrs. Boyle, stopping under the
    Line 9052 - Query word Boyle

entrance to the loft. "Alfred won't be back in a good while."
    Line 9053 - Query word loft

John's leg made rapid progress toward recovery. With Mrs. Boyle's
    Line 9055 - Query word rapid

John's leg made rapid progress toward recovery. With Mrs. Boyle's
    Line 9055 - Query word Boyle's

permission, for he was generally scrupulous in yielding to her
    Line 9056 - Query word scrupulous

permission, for he was generally scrupulous in yielding to her
    Line 9056 - Query word yielding

The excitement over his adventure had materially subsided, or had
    Line 9059 - Query word adventure

The excitement over his adventure had materially subsided, or had
    Line 9059 - Query word subsided

universally admitted that the mob had acted with more haste than
    Line 9062 - Query word acted

a knowledge would lead to his arrest, when he would be asked to
    Line 9064 - Query word arrest

furnish some explanations which he could not satisfactorily give. And
    Line 9065 - Query word furnish

yet, menaced by those consequences, he took risks. Without the
    Line 9066 - Query word menaced

yet, menaced by those consequences, he took risks. Without the
    Line 9066 - Query word consequences

knowledge of Mrs. Boyle he wandered to the narrow strip of improved
    Line 9067 - Query word Boyle

could see beyond the small pen in which he was imprisoned by the
    Line 9069 - Query word pen

could see beyond the small pen in which he was imprisoned by the
    Line 9069 - Query word imprisoned

forest, and he must not show contempt of her orders. Each day he sat
    Line 9070 - Query word orders

side hid the waters of Coon Lake and the village of Break o'Day.
    Line 9075 - Query word waters

side hid the waters of Coon Lake and the village of Break o'Day.
    Line 9075 - Query word Lake

have ventured much. That misgiving which he had felt at their
    Line 9078 - Query word ventured

to bid a second adieu were not vain follies, but the warnings of,
    Line 9080 - Query word vain

After some deliberation he fixed upon a depression in the upper edge
    Line 9085 - Query word fixed

his gaze might more nearly approach the Gothic house with its shroud
    Line 9087 - Query word gaze

To verify his mathematical observations he obtained Mrs. Boyle's
    Line 9090 - Query word Boyle's

compass. What was the reaction when he discovered that he had
    Line 9091 - Query word reaction

mistaken north for northwest and that he had thrown his kiss in the
    Line 9092 - Query word northwest

hard-wood timber ended was between him and Manie. His breast heaved,
    Line 9095 - Query word breast

but it soon harbored that discontent which had been engendered by his
    Line 9096 - Query word harbored

early training. Chances for which some vainly long are given, to
    Line 9097 - Query word early

others who have for them not the slightest appreciation. The dry old
    Line 9098 - Query word slightest

tree-top cared not for youth and beauty. Stripped of its foliage to
    Line 9099 - Query word cared

tree-top cared not for youth and beauty. Stripped of its foliage to
    Line 9099 - Query word Stripped

tree-top cared not for youth and beauty. Stripped of its foliage to
    Line 9099 - Query word foliage

mitigate the force of the wind and groaning whenever an unusual gust
    Line 9100 - Query word groaning

evergreens, yet it ignored its privileges, while they were yearned
    Line 9103 - Query word ignored

One night John announced to Mrs. Boyle his intention to take his
    Line 9106 - Query word Boyle

nearly well, but you know it is weak yet. You are welcome to stay,
    Line 9110 - Query word welcome

Aren't you afraid they'll try to arrest you?
    Line 9112 - Query word arrest

section lately that strangers will not be on the lookout to apprehend
    Line 9116 - Query word section

section lately that strangers will not be on the lookout to apprehend
    Line 9116 - Query word lately

"You are not going to-night?" asked Mrs. Boyle, as John took his hat.
    Line 9119 - Query word Boyle

"Now, John," said Mrs. Boyle, laying her hand on his arm, "be
    Line 9124 - Query word Boyle

"I will do as you say," answered John, as he stepped outside.
    Line 9129 - Query word outside

He crossed the clearing, on the poorly-cultivated surface of which
    Line 9131 - Query word cultivated

fire-weeds had grown rank and thick. As emitted an acrid odor which
    Line 9132 - Query word rank

underbrush was scant, so that the large trunks were visible for rods.
    Line 9137 - Query word underbrush

Slender plats of fresh green grass were scattered at intervals, their
    Line 9138 - Query word Slender

loveliness more apparent because contrasted with the brown spread of
    Line 9139 - Query word loveliness

loveliness more apparent because contrasted with the brown spread of
    Line 9139 - Query word apparent

dry leaves. Their verdancy had been preserved in the cool shade
    Line 9140 - Query word preserved

dry leaves. Their verdancy had been preserved in the cool shade
    Line 9140 - Query word cool

dry leaves. Their verdancy had been preserved in the cool shade
    Line 9140 - Query word shade

McDuff's heavy gate with the stone balance swung open as easily as it
    Line 9144 - Query word balance

McDuff's heavy gate with the stone balance swung open as easily as it
    Line 9144 - Query word swung

the wide stretch of fields. That he was nearing familiar territory he
    Line 9150 - Query word wide

the wide stretch of fields. That he was nearing familiar territory he
    Line 9150 - Query word stretch

the wide stretch of fields. That he was nearing familiar territory he
    Line 9150 - Query word familiar

far from unwelcome, the yelping of Takum's dogs. He crossed a second
    Line 9152 - Query word unwelcome

far from unwelcome, the yelping of Takum's dogs. He crossed a second
    Line 9152 - Query word yelping

ceased in the club-house. It was past the hour when the major's
    Line 9157 - Query word ceased

ceased in the club-house. It was past the hour when the major's
    Line 9157 - Query word past

parlor. John stole to a window and looked inside. Not a person was in
    Line 9159 - Query word person

out the lights before going to bed. He was astonished when, taking a
    Line 9161 - Query word lights

out the lights before going to bed. He was astonished when, taking a
    Line 9161 - Query word astonished

pages of which he occasionally turned. His fellow hired man had not
    Line 9163 - Query word occasionally

been famed for his love of books, and he wondered that he should
    Line 9164 - Query word famed

been famed for his love of books, and he wondered that he should
    Line 9164 - Query word wondered

suddenly become so devoted a student as to read until midnight. He
    Line 9165 - Query word student

suddenly become so devoted a student as to read until midnight. He
    Line 9165 - Query word midnight

serving as watcher. While he was endeavoring to solve the riddle,
    Line 9168 - Query word serving

of the house, John discovered that lights were burning in two of the
    Line 9171 - Query word lights

back bedrooms, which were separated by a distance of a few feet.
    Line 9172 - Query word separated

the shadow of a human form. For some minutes he watched it, undecided
    Line 9174 - Query word shadow

jerked its head, disappeared for an instant and returned. It did not
    Line 9176 - Query word jerked

belong to Manie, it was that of her impulsive cousin.
    Line 9177 - Query word belong

a long breath, he raised his finger hesitatingly. It trembled an
    Line 9180 - Query word hesitatingly

instant in the air and fell several times faintly on the pane. There
    Line 9181 - Query word pane

was a rustling of paper within, a sound as of some one closing a book
    Line 9182 - Query word rustling

was a rustling of paper within, a sound as of some one closing a book
    Line 9182 - Query word closing

and moving about in a chair. He was tempted to draw back from his
    Line 9183 - Query word tempted

adventure. Admitting that he had rightly guessed the location Manie's
    Line 9184 - Query word adventure

room, how was he assured that she would welcome a communication at
    Line 9185 - Query word welcome

room, how was he assured that she would welcome a communication at
    Line 9185 - Query word communication

midnight, or that she might not be affrighted and raise an alarm. She
    Line 9186 - Query word midnight

outcry, he must speak without delay. He must see her. He must say the
    Line 9190 - Query word outcry

outcry, he must speak without delay. He must see her. He must say the
    Line 9190 - Query word delay

farewell which he had once repressed. He placed his lips almost to
    Line 9191 - Query word repressed

alarmed at his familiarity. The curtains parted, and the face of
    Line 9193 - Query word parted

barrier of glass.
    Line 9196 - Query word barrier

afraid we shall be overheard."
    Line 9205 - Query word overheard

"Come to-morrow," said Manie, "and we will all be glad to see you."
    Line 9207 - Query word morrow

again. I am going away to-morrow morning, and I would like to talk
    Line 9210 - Query word morrow

His hope of having his request granted was so slight that he was
    Line 9213 - Query word request

He assisted her to the ground, and they stood together outside.
    Line 9215 - Query word outside

from the agitated boughs. At the foot of a harvest tree Manie stooped
    Line 9222 - Query word agitated

purpose in so doing; but John, supposing that she wished to satisfy
    Line 9224 - Query word supposing

her appetite, sprang up the tree in search of its best products. Like
    Line 9225 - Query word appetite

a red squirrel he raced from limb to limb and soon descended,
    Line 9226 - Query word descended

bringing a pocketful of mellow apples, which he insisted that she
    Line 9227 - Query word apples

bringing a pocketful of mellow apples, which he insisted that she
    Line 9227 - Query word insisted

no more, would ever be a delightful memory. He dreaded to follow his
    Line 9233 - Query word memory

no more, would ever be a delightful memory. He dreaded to follow his
    Line 9233 - Query word dreaded

inclinations, lest he should be repulsed and their parting be an
    Line 9234 - Query word lest

inclinations, lest he should be repulsed and their parting be an
    Line 9234 - Query word repulsed

event which would bring the most miserable recollections. He began to
    Line 9235 - Query word event

event which would bring the most miserable recollections. He began to
    Line 9235 - Query word recollections

feel that their meeting was a disappointment, that in social position
    Line 9236 - Query word social

and in mutual regard they were and must of necessity be far apart.
    Line 9237 - Query word regard

"Oh, not yet! Please do not go yet!" John remonstrated. "We have just
    Line 9241 - Query word remonstrated

am poor and disgraced. I do not wish to drag you down to my level.
    Line 9250 - Query word disgraced

To-morrow morning I go away, and I shall not come back. Keep from me
    Line 9251 - Query word morrow

"Of that I am uncertain," said John. "I mean to escape from my evil
    Line 9256 - Query word uncertain

struggle with it to the end. If I am overcome, it will be when I have
    Line 9258 - Query word overcome

strength to fight no longer. I mean yet to make a man whom the world
    Line 9259 - Query word strength

was indistinct. "By God's help I will succeed! Manie, Miss Ratke, I
    Line 9266 - Query word God's

if I succeed, if the world by its recognition acknowledges the wrong
    Line 9268 - Query word recognition

"I can consent to no such proposal," said Manie.
    Line 9272 - Query word consent

"I do not blame you," said John dejectedly. "I make an unreasonable
    Line 9274 - Query word unreasonable

request."
    Line 9275 - Query word request

"Yes," assented John, "I was foolish to speak as I did. You have a
    Line 9279 - Query word assented

fortune, but escape your misfortune. If I would have you at all, I
    Line 9284 - Query word fortune

fortune, but escape your misfortune. If I would have you at all, I
    Line 9284 - Query word misfortune

unsuccessful, esteemed or despised."
    Line 9286 - Query word unsuccessful

unsuccessful, esteemed or despised."
    Line 9286 - Query word esteemed

unsuccessful, esteemed or despised."
    Line 9286 - Query word despised

when he was menaced by danger and tortured with pain, had with hardly
    Line 9289 - Query word menaced

when he was menaced by danger and tortured with pain, had with hardly
    Line 9289 - Query word tortured

an interruption occupied his thoughts for a fortnight. His arm stole
    Line 9290 - Query word interruption

"Do not drive me away just yet," he pleaded. "Repulse me if you will,
    Line 9293 - Query word Repulse

but after I have done speaking. Manie, I must call you that name
    Line 9294 - Query word speaking

joy and in sorrow, in prosperity and in adversity, in riches and in
    Line 9296 - Query word sorrow

joy and in sorrow, in prosperity and in adversity, in riches and in
    Line 9296 - Query word riches

suspense. Let me think for a moment that I have won you, that we need
    Line 9299 - Query word suspense

not again be separated."
    Line 9300 - Query word separated

She did not reply, and his grasp involuntarily tightened. There was
    Line 9302 - Query word grasp

communicated by the senses. The wind gently touched his brow.
    Line 9304 - Query word communicated

communicated by the senses. The wind gently touched his brow.
    Line 9304 - Query word touched

Every orb in the sky was sending down its quota of light. The house
    Line 9306 - Query word sky

showed its roof and eaves above the trees, as if it had been dropped
    Line 9307 - Query word roof

tree, swaying slightly, cast at their feet silver bars and meshes of
    Line 9309 - Query word slightly

tree, swaying slightly, cast at their feet silver bars and meshes of
    Line 9309 - Query word cast

tree, swaying slightly, cast at their feet silver bars and meshes of
    Line 9309 - Query word bars

bright net-work. The steady signing of the cricket, blending with the
    Line 9310 - Query word steady

sharp jerking chirrup of the katydid, closed his eyes and plunged him
    Line 9311 - Query word jerking

into a reverie, which was brief, delightful, and ever after
    Line 9312 - Query word reverie

into a reverie, which was brief, delightful, and ever after
    Line 9312 - Query word brief

Her reply destroyed the last vestige of his composure. He threw his
    Line 9319 - Query word vestige

anticipating his design, quickly withdrew her head and closed the
    Line 9335 - Query word withdrew

CHAPTER XXIV. A BEETHOVEN AND A GIBBON IN ONE.
    Line 9339 - Query word XXIV

CHAPTER XXIV. A BEETHOVEN AND A GIBBON IN ONE.
    Line 9339 - Query word BEETHOVEN

CHAPTER XXIV. A BEETHOVEN AND A GIBBON IN ONE.
    Line 9339 - Query word GIBBON

are on the causeway, but you need not mind them till morning. Perhaps
    Line 9345 - Query word causeway

"Mr. Boutwell, my sister," said the major, ignoring Mrs. Grippin's
    Line 9357 - Query word ignoring

tirade. "Come this way, Mr. Boutwell, and we will wash."
    Line 9358 - Query word wash

deference. He kept an eye on his movements, however, and Mr. Boutwell
    Line 9361 - Query word eye

understood that though he might expect the treatment of a king, it
    Line 9362 - Query word expect

would be that of a captive king. He got him water wash and insisted
    Line 9363 - Query word wash

would be that of a captive king. He got him water wash and insisted
    Line 9363 - Query word insisted

experience with the philosopher had taught him better than to refuse
    Line 9365 - Query word taught

adjusted plasters over his split upper lip and a contusion on his
    Line 9367 - Query word adjusted

adjusted plasters over his split upper lip and a contusion on his
    Line 9367 - Query word split

adjusted plasters over his split upper lip and a contusion on his
    Line 9367 - Query word lip

cheek. Mrs. Grippin, unable to longer absent herself, entered the
    Line 9368 - Query word absent

cheek. Mrs. Grippin, unable to longer absent herself, entered the
    Line 9368 - Query word herself

kitchen, where she was followed by the girls, who had arisen to
    Line 9369 - Query word girls

manner introduced Mr. Boutwell to the young ladies.
    Line 9371 - Query word introduced

manner introduced Mr. Boutwell to the young ladies.
    Line 9371 - Query word ladies

"I cannot explain it to you now, little girl," said the major.
    Line 9376 - Query word explain

lot of 'em. Uncle James always sticks by his friends. Didn't he stick
    Line 9380 - Query word friends

"Close enough," answered Mr. Boutwell with a grin.
    Line 9383 - Query word grin

"You are badly hurt. Uncle James," said Manie. "Your eye is swollen,
    Line 9385 - Query word eye

parlor, "make yourself comfortable while I do some writing."
    Line 9396 - Query word writing

away. "Some notion James has got, I suppose."
    Line 9404 - Query word notion

Mrs. Grippin. "James ought to have more care for his reputation than
    Line 9409 - Query word reputation

to get into such a scrape. And the president of a big wagon company
    Line 9410 - Query word president

"More likely somebody made fun of James' wagon, and he got mad," said
    Line 9416 - Query word likely

more communicative, he yielded to Mrs. Grippin's influence, and
    Line 9422 - Query word yielded

admitted that Mr. Boutwell had attempted to rob him.
    Line 9423 - Query word rob

estimated properly the force at his disposal, but fell into the
    Line 9430 - Query word estimated

"He wrote me that he cannot be here until to-morrow," said Ratke.
    Line 9436 - Query word wrote

"He wrote me that he cannot be here until to-morrow," said Ratke.
    Line 9436 - Query word morrow

"Now," cautioned the housekeeper, "don't you take that money with
    Line 9438 - Query word cautioned

"I had rather risk it with me," said the major. "I am able to defend
    Line 9441 - Query word defend

"Oh, dear!" exclaimed Mrs. Grippin. "Such a careless man! You'll fall
    Line 9444 - Query word careless

leave the homestead and go into the street. They might find a home,
    Line 9454 - Query word street

but what kind of home? Nora would go to her aristocratic relatives.
    Line 9455 - Query word relatives

Manie might die or get married. She pictured mentally the two who
    Line 9456 - Query word pictured

formed the relic of the family, Ratke grubbing by the day, herself
    Line 9457 - Query word relic

formed the relic of the family, Ratke grubbing by the day, herself
    Line 9457 - Query word herself

doing washing for Sparks and Mrs. Green. She was not ashamed to work;
    Line 9458 - Query word washing

property had been recklessly parted with, to slave for others in
    Line 9460 - Query word recklessly

property had been recklessly parted with, to slave for others in
    Line 9460 - Query word parted

their old age, and finally to be dependent on local charity or go to
    Line 9461 - Query word finally

their old age, and finally to be dependent on local charity or go to
    Line 9461 - Query word charity

The major came home at dusk. "Well, Maria," he said, "I have escaped
    Line 9464 - Query word dusk

without meeting any bad fortune."
    Line 9465 - Query word fortune

"You want to look out for to-night," cautioned his sister. "Everybody
    Line 9467 - Query word cautioned

As the major went up the club-house steps, there was a scrambling
    Line 9494 - Query word scrambling

which was raised at one corner enough to show several cards. But he
    Line 9497 - Query word cards

stay in the house to-night. She thinks we are liable to be robbed. I
    Line 9501 - Query word thinks

stay in the house to-night. She thinks we are liable to be robbed. I
    Line 9501 - Query word robbed

have not the slightest fear of such a danger, but to keep peace in
    Line 9502 - Query word slightest

to-morrow. But this working as tight as you can jump and then being
    Line 9518 - Query word morrow

to-morrow. But this working as tight as you can jump and then being
    Line 9518 - Query word tight

commencing at six o'clock, if you wish."
    Line 9522 - Query word commencing

"Seeing it's an emergency, I'll go," said Archer. "Of course, I'm
    Line 9524 - Query word Seeing

major, opening the door to depart, "We will sit up as late as that."
    Line 9528 - Query word depart

"Say," said Daggett, "if you get into a snooze, and a horse-thief
    Line 9536 - Query word snooze

goes to jabbing you with a fish-pole, you want to holler."
    Line 9537 - Query word fish

goes to jabbing you with a fish-pole, you want to holler."
    Line 9537 - Query word holler

Mrs. Grippin was in a passion over the major's choice of watchman.
    Line 9542 - Query word choice

"Now, Will," she said, "I want you to have some gumption about you.
    Line 9543 - Query word gumption

"I hope he is right," said Mrs. Grippin, "He and the girls are in the
    Line 9549 - Query word girls

danger, he said, but seeing Archer was to watch, he should take every
    Line 9553 - Query word seeing

and a revolver he should get into a dark corner. The north-east was
    Line 9556 - Query word revolver

Territory," said Ratke, "when we were chasing Black Hawk. We had been
    Line 9560 - Query word chasing

marching all day, constantly expecting to come up with the Indians.
    Line 9561 - Query word constantly

I was on for picket duty. My watch commenced at one o'clock. They
    Line 9564 - Query word picket

posted me at least seventy rods from the camp, a short distance from
    Line 9565 - Query word seventy

I did not fancy the position. Standing where the enemy can see you,
    Line 9567 - Query word enemy

perceptible danger. I knew that if the Sacs and Foxes were prowling
    Line 9569 - Query word perceptible

about, they had an excellent chance to get my scalp. Sounds as of
    Line 9570 - Query word Sounds

disturbance in the water, a subdued splashing which I knew to be
    Line 9573 - Query word splashing

occasioned by the crossing of a man or of some animal. The grass,
    Line 9574 - Query word crossing

which was tall and thick, began to wave suspiciously, and to add to
    Line 9575 - Query word wave

my uneasiness the waves were coming toward me. I was at a loss what
    Line 9576 - Query word uneasiness

to do. Staying there for a target with the certainty of being hit the
    Line 9577 - Query word certainty

giving an unnecessary alarm was to be avoided if possible. I got
    Line 9579 - Query word unnecessary

under cover of a tree, held my rifle ready to use, and waited. I
    Line 9580 - Query word cover

nervous as I fired. I was still more so, when the steady motion
    Line 9582 - Query word fired

nervous as I fired. I was still more so, when the steady motion
    Line 9582 - Query word steady

changed to a spasmodic struggling and some objects which I could not
    Line 9583 - Query word struggling

the struggling. I waited a few minutes and could plainly distinguish
    Line 9586 - Query word struggling

more splashing as if others were crossing the creek. In a few minutes
    Line 9587 - Query word splashing

more splashing as if others were crossing the creek. In a few minutes
    Line 9587 - Query word crossing

I was certain that some figures were skulking along between me and
    Line 9588 - Query word figures

shoulder, fired and ran. When I got to camp, everybody was up ready
    Line 9593 - Query word fired

"'Well, that's queer,' said the sergeant. 'We heard only one shot.'
    Line 9601 - Query word queer

"'I should think it is queer,' I answered. 'I fired at them. Then
    Line 9603 - Query word queer

"'I should think it is queer,' I answered. 'I fired at them. Then
    Line 9603 - Query word fired

they got between me and the camp and fired three or four shots at me
    Line 9604 - Query word fired

and I fired back.'
    Line 9605 - Query word fired

them moving off. We fired at him, and he fired back, and the ball
    Line 9608 - Query word fired

them moving off. We fired at him, and he fired back, and the ball
    Line 9608 - Query word fired

then. They had heard the shot I fired and had crept out, when we
    Line 9612 - Query word fired

always fearful of an attack from the enemy. They forget that the same
    Line 9615 - Query word fearful

always fearful of an attack from the enemy. They forget that the same
    Line 9615 - Query word enemy

prudence which they have will keep the foe from hazarding a rash
    Line 9616 - Query word prudence

indifferent artists employ to induce more urging. "I guess I hadn't
    Line 9623 - Query word indifferent

indifferent artists employ to induce more urging. "I guess I hadn't
    Line 9623 - Query word induce

indifferent artists employ to induce more urging. "I guess I hadn't
    Line 9623 - Query word urging

At this juncture the vain major, whose greatest intolerance was for
    Line 9637 - Query word juncture

At this juncture the vain major, whose greatest intolerance was for
    Line 9637 - Query word vain

folly in so exaggerated a form.
    Line 9639 - Query word folly

to give up the exercise of his fascination, he exchanged sly glances
    Line 9650 - Query word exercise

of her eye, and Archer abandoned his winking and leering on finding
    Line 9654 - Query word eye

that they were not returned, the Trebian ambush was never sprung.
    Line 9655 - Query word sprung

Mrs. Grippin finally returned to her room, saying, as she did so,
    Line 9656 - Query word finally

stern relative, "did you ever read history much?"
    Line 9660 - Query word stern

"Well, now, I can't say positive," said Archer with a wise nod, "but
    Line 9666 - Query word positive

"Well, now, I can't say positive," said Archer with a wise nod, "but
    Line 9666 - Query word wise

I kind o' think George Washington was, don't you?"
    Line 9667 - Query word George

"No," said Nora, "I think Tammany Hall was. But they didn't treat him
    Line 9669 - Query word Hall

"That's a fact," said Archer, "they used him miserable."
    Line 9672 - Query word fact

"I think Queen Elizabeth was. Let's see. What was it he said when he
    Line 9679 - Query word Queen

"I think Queen Elizabeth was. Let's see. What was it he said when he
    Line 9679 - Query word Let's

Farewell, O England, thou land of my birth.'"
    Line 9681 - Query word birth

"Yes, that was it," assented Archer.
    Line 9683 - Query word assented

    "'Long have I served thee O, Queen,'
    Line 9687 - Query word Queen

"I guess he was quite a man. He conquered the whole world, you know."
    Line 9697 - Query word conquered

"They claim they scratched gravel to beat all," said Archer.
    Line 9709 - Query word scratched

"You can find pictures of all the great men in this history of the
    Line 9711 - Query word pictures

world," said Nora, bringing from one of the bookcases a large volume
    Line 9712 - Query word bookcases

"I like to look at pictures. Mrs. Warfle," said Archer, taking the
    Line 9715 - Query word pictures

"Let's see," said Nora, "they called Elisha the Seventh Giant Lishe,
    Line 9718 - Query word Let's

I believe he was born in the year eight hundred and two. I think his
    Line 9726 - Query word born

Olyppus the Tiger with his own hand. Let's see, was it one of his own
    Line 9728 - Query word Let's

"I don't remember," said Archer. "I've had to work so hard lately
    Line 9731 - Query word lately

"That's so, Mrs. Warfle," assented Archer. "He was teetotally
    Line 9738 - Query word assented

smashed."
    Line 9739 - Query word smashed

thrust inside.
    Line 9742 - Query word thrust

useless for her to argue, prepared to obey her aunt's orders. She
    Line 9748 - Query word aunt's

useless for her to argue, prepared to obey her aunt's orders. She
    Line 9748 - Query word orders

heroes whose merits he had been reviewing. He found many military
    Line 9752 - Query word military

scenes and many pictures of warriors whose heads were adorned with
    Line 9753 - Query word pictures

smooth helmets or jagged crowns. But in his search he was not
    Line 9754 - Query word smooth

designated by the major and bade him a final good-night.
    Line 9760 - Query word final

It chanced that the sofa was in that corner. Archer was tired. It
    Line 9762 - Query word sofa

occurred to him that he could watch as well reclining as erect. He
    Line 9763 - Query word occurred

occurred to him that he could watch as well reclining as erect. He
    Line 9763 - Query word erect

An hour later an intruder was in the room, carefully lifting Archer's
    Line 9768 - Query word later

head and removing the bag in his possession, when the eyes of the
    Line 9769 - Query word removing

head and removing the bag in his possession, when the eyes of the
    Line 9769 - Query word bag

sleeper unclosed and Archer raised himself on his elbow. The robber
    Line 9770 - Query word sleeper

sleeper unclosed and Archer raised himself on his elbow. The robber
    Line 9770 - Query word elbow

dashed through the hall, running close to Nora, who was returning to
    Line 9771 - Query word dashed

dashed through the hall, running close to Nora, who was returning to
    Line 9771 - Query word hall

the library with the book which she had taken. He entered the front
    Line 9772 - Query word library

evergreens, just as Archer, who was now thoroughly awake, fired two
    Line 9774 - Query word fired

CHAPTER XXV.
    Line 9778 - Query word XXV

"OH, dear! Oh, dear!" wailed Nora, throwing herself on the floor.
    Line 9781 - Query word wailed

"OH, dear! Oh, dear!" wailed Nora, throwing herself on the floor.
    Line 9781 - Query word herself

An instant later Ratke rushed to the scene of the disturbance with
    Line 9786 - Query word later

Like a school-boy the major jumped through the window and ran down
    Line 9794 - Query word jumped

the walk. When he came to the gate, he fancied he saw a man entering
    Line 9795 - Query word fancied

the shadow of the horse-barn. He proceeded to the spot, but save
    Line 9796 - Query word shadow

"Oh, I can't," wailed Nora. "I never can get up. Oh, dear!"
    Line 9802 - Query word wailed

Realizing that a crisis in their employer's business affairs had
    Line 9812 - Query word crisis

Realizing that a crisis in their employer's business affairs had
    Line 9812 - Query word employer's

come, they entered into the hunt with a zeal which they had never
    Line 9813 - Query word zeal

Not one of the men would accept his offer. Unanimously they agreed to
    Line 9820 - Query word Unanimously

roused a few of the inhabitants, and made such arrangements as he
    Line 9823 - Query word inhabitants

thought were likely to lead to the recovery of the major's stolen
    Line 9824 - Query word likely

summoned them to breakfast. While they were in the kitchen washing,
    Line 9827 - Query word washing

The late misfortune filled the major with a dejection which nothing
    Line 9830 - Query word misfortune

The late misfortune filled the major with a dejection which nothing
    Line 9830 - Query word dejection

must go. The study, the tool-house, the improvements which he had
    Line 9833 - Query word study

nature of his announcement, he addressed them in a brief speech.
    Line 9837 - Query word brief

and have performed well the tasks which I have given you. In every
    Line 9841 - Query word tasks

exigency you have been my efficient helpers; to all my enterprises
    Line 9842 - Query word exigency

exigency you have been my efficient helpers; to all my enterprises
    Line 9842 - Query word enterprises

you that we can no longer maintain the relations of employer and
    Line 9844 - Query word relations

doing you injustice if I allowed you to stay, when I am uncertain
    Line 9848 - Query word uncertain

am already owing you debts which must for the present remain unpaid.
    Line 9850 - Query word owing

I could have given you your wages when they were due. To think that I
    Line 9852 - Query word due

consummation of my misery. But you shall not be defrauded. If I am
    Line 9855 - Query word defrauded

unintentionally cheated. I will sell my stock, my farming implements,
    Line 9858 - Query word cheated

my breakfast furniture. My creditors shall have their just dues, and
    Line 9859 - Query word creditors

charge a cent.
    Line 9866 - Query word charge

Osborne, to whose wife he was related. The other men Ratke persuaded
    Line 9877 - Query word persuaded

Ratke sat in a rocking-chair with his chin resting on his hand and
    Line 9879 - Query word resting

studied out most of his inventions.
    Line 9881 - Query word inventions

"Give up?" answered the major, jerking his head from his hand, "not
    Line 9886 - Query word jerking

while I live. Misfortune may beat me down, may trample on me, may
    Line 9887 - Query word Misfortune

break my bones, but it shall not conquer me. I am not discouraged; I
    Line 9888 - Query word bones

Ratke's despondency was greater than he would admit.
    Line 9891 - Query word admit

of the most gloomy character.
    Line 9894 - Query word gloomy

from his chin. "Leave me alone awhile. I want to think."
    Line 9901 - Query word awhile

done except by steam or water power. It is a dasher which gives the
    Line 9906 - Query word gives

leave here. You better fill up all our ticks with new straw."
    Line 9910 - Query word fill

miserable to think of petty physical comforts. He went to the stack
    Line 9919 - Query word petty

Then he thoughtlessly emptied them near the path. Mrs. Grippin came
    Line 9922 - Query word emptied

take a wheel-barrow to carry back the filled ticks. Partly
    Line 9924 - Query word barrow

understanding her injunction, he took the wheel-barrow and brought
    Line 9925 - Query word understanding

understanding her injunction, he took the wheel-barrow and brought
    Line 9925 - Query word injunction

understanding her injunction, he took the wheel-barrow and brought
    Line 9925 - Query word barrow

was doing. He had tried to rivet his attention on the projected
    Line 9932 - Query word tried

He was continually reminded of the farm whose ownership he had
    Line 9934 - Query word reminded

allowed to be wrested from him. He missed the clumsy jokes of the
    Line 9935 - Query word missed

allowed to be wrested from him. He missed the clumsy jokes of the
    Line 9935 - Query word clumsy

allowed to be wrested from him. He missed the clumsy jokes of the
    Line 9935 - Query word jokes

men. Archer's monotonous song was not echoing from a distant field.
    Line 9936 - Query word distant

No teams were at work on his fallow. Stagnation had come to his
    Line 9937 - Query word teams

enterprises, his energies, his hopes; and ambition, its clamor for
    Line 9938 - Query word enterprises

enterprises, his energies, his hopes; and ambition, its clamor for
    Line 9938 - Query word ambition

enterprises, his energies, his hopes; and ambition, its clamor for
    Line 9938 - Query word clamor

food disregarded, had suddenly died.
    Line 9939 - Query word food

"Right at it, Major," said the hearty voice of Durgenson. "I suppose
    Line 9941 - Query word hearty

the women got you into that."
    Line 9942 - Query word women

"Yes," said Ratke, straightening from his stooping posture over a
    Line 9944 - Query word stooping

tick. "You are rather late, Durgenson."
    Line 9945 - Query word tick

"What!" ejaculated Durgenson with genuine disappointment. "Stole! I
    Line 9954 - Query word genuine

major, "and last night I had one of my men act as guard. He slept at
    Line 9958 - Query word slept

"There is nothing I can do," replied Ratke. "I am at your mercy."
    Line 9965 - Query word mercy

"There is no more scraping to be done," said the major, "I have paid
    Line 9971 - Query word scraping

"They must be paid," said the major emphatically, "I promised it to
    Line 9991 - Query word emphatically

"The laborer is worthy of his hire," said Ratke. "My men shall be
    Line 9996 - Query word worthy

angrily. "You can understand now that I won't do it. You promised me
    Line 10000 - Query word angrily

the morning to shove you out into the street! Your promises are a
    Line 10009 - Query word street

"Do you mean to say, you liar," cried the major, "that I
    Line 10013 - Query word liar

"What!" exclaimed Durgenson. "Don't you call me a liar! I won't take
    Line 10016 - Query word liar

"You are a liar!" said Ratke, advancing and peering into the face of
    Line 10019 - Query word liar

Durgenson quickened his pace, climbed hastily over the fence and
    Line 10028 - Query word pace

Durgenson, in the prime of manhood, large and athletic, contrasted
    Line 10034 - Query word prime

Durgenson, in the prime of manhood, large and athletic, contrasted
    Line 10034 - Query word manhood

strongly with the haggard, white-haired old man who promptly climbed
    Line 10035 - Query word haired

fastened the button, at the same time saying, "I won't be guilty of
    Line 10040 - Query word guilty

have you out of here to-morrow," he called, when he had got his horse
    Line 10047 - Query word morrow

"You ought to have licked him," said Mrs. Grippin, who with the girls
    Line 10050 - Query word girls

cradle, which cut a very wide swath, and was intended to be used by a
    Line 10072 - Query word wide

strong man. He was unused to the work, but he had cared for his
    Line 10073 - Query word cared

could not keep from hitting the ground with the scythe.
    Line 10075 - Query word scythe

the outer edge of the swath. Undiscouraged by his awkwardness, he
    Line 10078 - Query word outer

the outer edge of the swath. Undiscouraged by his awkwardness, he
    Line 10078 - Query word awkwardness

whipped the cradle back and forth, making good time in spite of all
    Line 10079 - Query word whipped

difficulties. His face was covered with sweat, he was much fatigued
    Line 10080 - Query word sweat

and the upper part of his right fore-arm pained him excessively, yet
    Line 10081 - Query word excessively

"I'll help," volunteered Nora, who was strangely sober. "I'll milk
    Line 10093 - Query word volunteered

"I'll help," volunteered Nora, who was strangely sober. "I'll milk
    Line 10093 - Query word strangely

"I'll help," volunteered Nora, who was strangely sober. "I'll milk
    Line 10093 - Query word sober

"Nora, where did you put those pails?"
    Line 10097 - Query word pails

take the water pails. That's all."
    Line 10102 - Query word pails

"Why!" exclaimed Mrs. Grippin, "It was you that got the pails, Mark."
    Line 10108 - Query word pails

to-day and talked hard to him. He's going to put us off to-morrow."
    Line 10119 - Query word morrow

That night the major was restless. Harassed, overworked and
    Line 10125 - Query word restless

easy posture. His head throbbed and became the seat of a dull pain. A
    Line 10127 - Query word dull

strange roaring sound was in his ears, but, when he sat up in bed, it
    Line 10128 - Query word ears

ceased. After it had several times recurred, and been dispelled by
    Line 10129 - Query word ceased

his assuming an erect position he gave up his attempts to discover
    Line 10130 - Query word assuming

his assuming an erect position he gave up his attempts to discover
    Line 10130 - Query word erect

his assuming an erect position he gave up his attempts to discover
    Line 10130 - Query word discover

its cause. The roaring grew so loud that he again rose to see if it
    Line 10131 - Query word grew

were really an illusion. This time he was astonished to hear the
    Line 10132 - Query word really

were really an illusion. This time he was astonished to hear the
    Line 10132 - Query word astonished

past his window.
    Line 10134 - Query word past

CHAPTER XXVI.
    Line 10137 - Query word XXVI

mind and motive. It is true that their interpretation is attempted,
    Line 10141 - Query word motive

explain but to narrate.
    Line 10146 - Query word explain

fragment of memory came to him, a fragment which, even then, he
    Line 10151 - Query word fragment

fragment of memory came to him, a fragment which, even then, he
    Line 10151 - Query word memory

fragment of memory came to him, a fragment which, even then, he
    Line 10151 - Query word fragment

strove to connect and locate. He had seen that dull countenance when
    Line 10152 - Query word locate

strove to connect and locate. He had seen that dull countenance when
    Line 10152 - Query word dull

terror returned. Suddenly he remembered his dream. He saw himself
    Line 10154 - Query word dream

His hand trembled as he removed the money-bag from Archer's head. It
    Line 10158 - Query word bag

which sometimes consigns to an adverse fate even the bravest of men.
    Line 10160 - Query word fate

He was struck in the back by one of the shots which Archer fired. He
    Line 10162 - Query word fired

ran nearly to the barnyard without becoming aware of the seriousness
    Line 10163 - Query word aware

of his wound, but, when he reached the straw-stack, he comprehended
    Line 10164 - Query word comprehended

that he was badly hurt. The swamp was toward half a mile distant and
    Line 10165 - Query word distant

rails to prevent its being enlarged. He burrowed as far as he could
    Line 10169 - Query word enlarged

in the end of this cave, covering himself with the littering which
    Line 10170 - Query word covering

secretion, Ratke dashed past the opening. In the course of a minute
    Line 10172 - Query word dashed

secretion, Ratke dashed past the opening. In the course of a minute
    Line 10172 - Query word past

the succeeding day who but the One all-wise can ever know.
    Line 10177 - Query word succeeding

the succeeding day who but the One all-wise can ever know.
    Line 10177 - Query word wise

to see who was disturbing his painful reflections. For a moment, as
    Line 10184 - Query word disturbing

his gaze fell on Manie, he was glad, but his joy soon changed to
    Line 10185 - Query word gaze

longing and regret. He wished that the burden of his sin were lifted
    Line 10186 - Query word longing

longing and regret. He wished that the burden of his sin were lifted
    Line 10186 - Query word burden

soothing hand upon his brow, with her sympathetic words sounding in
    Line 10189 - Query word soothing

his ears. While he was watching her, she hastily gathered the straw
    Line 10190 - Query word ears

between Mrs. Grippin and Daggett. He envied this fellow with his
    Line 10192 - Query word envied

never-failing fund of good spirits, his perfect adaptation to
    Line 10193 - Query word spirits

ignorance and egotism and his sleepy, inexpressive face. His
    Line 10196 - Query word ignorance

recollection during the night was singularly fruitful. Before him was
    Line 10197 - Query word recollection

to him as when, gloomy and inert, he stood by the body of his victim
    Line 10202 - Query word gloomy

in the cellar. He recalled the minute particulars of the dream which
    Line 10203 - Query word recalled

in the cellar. He recalled the minute particulars of the dream which
    Line 10203 - Query word dream

succeeded his crime. How smooth was that river, and how typical was
    Line 10204 - Query word smooth

it of his boyhood. What would he not give to be as he was and sport
    Line 10205 - Query word boyhood

in the meadows beside it, to plunge into its waters and cool the
    Line 10206 - Query word waters

in the meadows beside it, to plunge into its waters and cool the
    Line 10206 - Query word cool

understood why Green had leered at him. That confident expression of
    Line 10208 - Query word confident

triumph had been prophetic. The murderer had met and was meeting his
    Line 10209 - Query word triumph

taught him his bland deceit, whose recompense for service had been
    Line 10213 - Query word taught

took a generous draught and wet his head and face. The cool water
    Line 10218 - Query word cool

revived him, and his tottering legs grew stronger. He believed that
    Line 10219 - Query word grew

revived him, and his tottering legs grew stronger. He believed that
    Line 10219 - Query word stronger

gratify his hatred of Durgenson. Very soon the estate would be in the
    Line 10222 - Query word hatred

were clenched. He threw the bag of stolen money into the hollow which
    Line 10227 - Query word bag

farther, and, sinking on the earth, commenced to crawl toward the
    Line 10231 - Query word crawl

obliged frequently to suspend his exertions, but he did not dare stop
    Line 10233 - Query word frequently

long, fearful that his little remaining energy would forsake him.
    Line 10234 - Query word fearful

From the place where one of the ticks had been emptied, he gathered
    Line 10235 - Query word emptied

wished to get to the southwest corner of the building, but it seemed
    Line 10238 - Query word southwest

to him that he could go no farther. He raised himself on his elbow.
    Line 10239 - Query word elbow

deliberate desperation he measured his strength, knowing that if he
    Line 10241 - Query word deliberate

deliberate desperation he measured his strength, knowing that if he
    Line 10241 - Query word strength

blowing from the southwest. He raised himself, placed the straw
    Line 10245 - Query word southwest

clapboards and rose slowly, then rapidly toward the eaves.
    Line 10247 - Query word clapboards

succeeded in getting among them. A column of flame had mounted high
    Line 10251 - Query word flame

in the house. The bright light and the dark rolling smoke reminded
    Line 10252 - Query word rolling

in the house. The bright light and the dark rolling smoke reminded
    Line 10252 - Query word reminded

CHAPTER XXVII.
    Line 10257 - Query word XXVII

but to make her way out through the window. In this way the two girls
    Line 10262 - Query word girls

out a volume of smoke and heat which drove him staggering back. He
    Line 10269 - Query word staggering

Brought back to reason by the familiar voice and address, Ratke
    Line 10278 - Query word familiar

to carry out crockery and kitchen utensils. Then he thought of saving
    Line 10284 - Query word saving

late. They were already enveloped in flame.
    Line 10286 - Query word flame

and turned loose the horses, which went racing around the barnyard,
    Line 10292 - Query word racing

of safety. They had barely escaped when the straw-stack was lighted,
    Line 10295 - Query word safety

become too much heated to allow him to pass through it.
    Line 10298 - Query word heated

Humanity alone had sent him to the barns. His choicest inventions,
    Line 10300 - Query word Humanity

Humanity alone had sent him to the barns. His choicest inventions,
    Line 10300 - Query word choicest

Humanity alone had sent him to the barns. His choicest inventions,
    Line 10300 - Query word inventions

which he was determined to rescue, were in the tool-house. When he
    Line 10301 - Query word rescue

saw. His New Jerusalem, the most precious of his mental creations,
    Line 10304 - Query word creations

was still inside. His charred bones would have been mingled with the
    Line 10305 - Query word bones

ashes and blackened irons had not Mrs. Grippin and Manie detained
    Line 10306 - Query word ashes

ashes and blackened irons had not Mrs. Grippin and Manie detained
    Line 10306 - Query word blackened

"Let go of me," he insisted, still struggling in the grasp of the
    Line 10314 - Query word insisted

"Let go of me," he insisted, still struggling in the grasp of the
    Line 10314 - Query word struggling

"Let go of me," he insisted, still struggling in the grasp of the
    Line 10314 - Query word grasp

They held him until the roof fell in and they knew by his quiet
    Line 10318 - Query word roof

demeanor that his spasm of excitement had passed. Indifferent as to
    Line 10319 - Query word demeanor

demeanor that his spasm of excitement had passed. Indifferent as to
    Line 10319 - Query word Indifferent

what next occurred, he seated himself on a stick of hewn timber near
    Line 10320 - Query word occurred

what next occurred, he seated himself on a stick of hewn timber near
    Line 10320 - Query word hewn

debris were dropped on the roof. By some of these it was lighted,
    Line 10324 - Query word roof

The oat-field joined the barnyard. The grain, thick, lodged and dead
    Line 10328 - Query word oat

ripe, caught like tinder and sent a swift wave of flame across the
    Line 10329 - Query word ripe

ripe, caught like tinder and sent a swift wave of flame across the
    Line 10329 - Query word wave

ripe, caught like tinder and sent a swift wave of flame across the
    Line 10329 - Query word flame

was there wide-leafed and dry. It spread to the small bushes, where
    Line 10331 - Query word wide

it grew in height and intensity. It swept with increasing speed over
    Line 10332 - Query word grew

it grew in height and intensity. It swept with increasing speed over
    Line 10332 - Query word intensity

it grew in height and intensity. It swept with increasing speed over
    Line 10332 - Query word swept

it grew in height and intensity. It swept with increasing speed over
    Line 10332 - Query word speed

For miles could be heard the steady roar and seen the long streams of
    Line 10334 - Query word miles

For miles could be heard the steady roar and seen the long streams of
    Line 10334 - Query word steady

The women carried pail after pail of water to the clubhouse, but
    Line 10337 - Query word women

Ratke mechanically watched the swamp. Its high volume of flame, the
    Line 10338 - Query word flame

for him. Benumbed, as he was, by the succession of misfortunes, he
    Line 10340 - Query word succession

for him. Benumbed, as he was, by the succession of misfortunes, he
    Line 10340 - Query word misfortunes

refuge would be on the morrow. He gave no concern to the fact that he
    Line 10344 - Query word morrow

refuge would be on the morrow. He gave no concern to the fact that he
    Line 10344 - Query word concern

refuge would be on the morrow. He gave no concern to the fact that he
    Line 10344 - Query word fact

was barefooted, homeless, hatless and coatless. He sat listlessly,
    Line 10345 - Query word barefooted

occasionally turning to look at the women, the tool-house, the
    Line 10346 - Query word occasionally

occasionally turning to look at the women, the tool-house, the
    Line 10346 - Query word women

"What provision?"
    Line 10361 - Query word provision

he's, as you might say, in a bad fix."
    Line 10369 - Query word fix

kept his seat on the stick of timber, while his unwelcome visitor
    Line 10372 - Query word unwelcome

went to interview and, perchance, to assist the women, who were
    Line 10373 - Query word interview

went to interview and, perchance, to assist the women, who were
    Line 10373 - Query word women

stay. Offers of hospitality were made by every one present.
    Line 10388 - Query word hospitality

goin' to say I won't give no help because the major was careless,
    Line 10391 - Query word careless

forgitful like. Some folks is always careless, and other folks have
    Line 10392 - Query word careless

Jennie Holmes locked arms with Manie and Nora, and the three walked
    Line 10398 - Query word locked

"I must see to Uncle James," said Manie. "He feels so bad. Some one
    Line 10401 - Query word feels

have constructed, perishing, as have my hopes for its success, eaten
    Line 10416 - Query word constructed

out piece by piece, always with a circle of ashes around the
    Line 10417 - Query word circle

out piece by piece, always with a circle of ashes around the
    Line 10417 - Query word ashes

boxes are about gone. The spokes are burned well to the center of the
    Line 10419 - Query word boxes

boxes are about gone. The spokes are burned well to the center of the
    Line 10419 - Query word spokes

"You had better come," argued Manie. "It will do you no good to stay
    Line 10422 - Query word argued

"Yes, it will," said Ratke. "All my dearest earthly possessions are
    Line 10425 - Query word dearest

burning out of me everything except the harder and sterner feelings."
    Line 10428 - Query word harder

burning out of me everything except the harder and sterner feelings."
    Line 10428 - Query word sterner

"Give up?" said the major, "No, I never gave up to man or misfortune,
    Line 10433 - Query word misfortune

and I have ceased to struggle. I care not what happens, I am ready to
    Line 10435 - Query word ceased

meet it. Despair has no further depth to open for me. My senses are
    Line 10436 - Query word depth

my capacity for suffering is exhausted. Leave me now, Manie. I want
    Line 10438 - Query word exhausted

this barbarous fashion."
    Line 10442 - Query word fashion

you would not choose this as the time to break my command."
    Line 10445 - Query word choose

you would not choose this as the time to break my command."
    Line 10445 - Query word command

command of her uncle. She walked slowly, that she might not join Miss
    Line 10448 - Query word command

Holmes and Nora, for she was crying bitterly, not for herself, not
    Line 10449 - Query word bitterly

Holmes and Nora, for she was crying bitterly, not for herself, not
    Line 10449 - Query word herself

Now and then the group in advance cast back glances at the
    Line 10453 - Query word group

Now and then the group in advance cast back glances at the
    Line 10453 - Query word cast

The inhabitants of Break o'Day were awakened by clouds of smoke
    Line 10458 - Query word inhabitants

rolling in at their open windows. Rising, they perceived here and
    Line 10459 - Query word rolling

there waving pillars of fire standing out against the western sky,
    Line 10460 - Query word waving

there waving pillars of fire standing out against the western sky,
    Line 10460 - Query word sky

companions were being slowly undermined. They could not see that
    Line 10462 - Query word companions

unbroken sheet which curtained the opposite side of the swamp, but
    Line 10463 - Query word unbroken

they saw and heard enough to fill them with consternation. They
    Line 10464 - Query word fill

harnessed teams, they loaded wagons with furniture and prepared to
    Line 10465 - Query word teams

harnessed teams, they loaded wagons with furniture and prepared to
    Line 10465 - Query word loaded

only inflammable material was the muck and the few dry trees, the
    Line 10468 - Query word muck

fire traveled with less rapidity than at the edge. The people
    Line 10469 - Query word rapidity

conflagration. The road westward, however, was in all likelihood too
    Line 10473 - Query word westward

for a distance along the Sharptown road, turning south past Briggs's,
    Line 10475 - Query word past

proceeding west at Barton Junction, and finally bringing up at the
    Line 10476 - Query word finally

They rose early, and after breakfast went back to Ratke. Before them
    Line 10480 - Query word early

at the few points of flame which clung about his Jerusalem wagon. He
    Line 10483 - Query word flame

at the few points of flame which clung about his Jerusalem wagon. He
    Line 10483 - Query word clung

hardly spoke to his friends and ignored, or answered briefly, their
    Line 10484 - Query word friends

hardly spoke to his friends and ignored, or answered briefly, their
    Line 10484 - Query word ignored

hardly spoke to his friends and ignored, or answered briefly, their
    Line 10484 - Query word briefly

questions. Manie went close to their ruined dwelling. Some blackened
    Line 10485 - Query word questions

questions. Manie went close to their ruined dwelling. Some blackened
    Line 10485 - Query word ruined

questions. Manie went close to their ruined dwelling. Some blackened
    Line 10485 - Query word blackened

sheets of paper, well-preserved in shape, were where the bookcases
    Line 10486 - Query word preserved

sheets of paper, well-preserved in shape, were where the bookcases
    Line 10486 - Query word bookcases

pieces as soon as it was touched.
    Line 10489 - Query word touched

helped here. I'm willin' to help, but of course it pulls on the
    Line 10496 - Query word helped

helped here. I'm willin' to help, but of course it pulls on the
    Line 10496 - Query word pulls

"I'll pass 'em," said Sparks. "Now, gentlemen, who's a goin' to give
    Line 10503 - Query word gentlemen

"I'll pass 'em," said Sparks. "Now, gentlemen, who's a goin' to give
    Line 10503 - Query word who's

generosity might be observed.
    Line 10508 - Query word generosity

The offers of charity roused Ratke, who had been deaf to all other
    Line 10510 - Query word charity

sounds. "Gentlemen," he said, "I can accept no charity. I am able to
    Line 10511 - Query word sounds

sounds. "Gentlemen," he said, "I can accept no charity. I am able to
    Line 10511 - Query word Gentlemen

sounds. "Gentlemen," he said, "I can accept no charity. I am able to
    Line 10511 - Query word charity

forgetful of the kindness which was ready to succor him.
    Line 10513 - Query word forgetful

what they need, and the major won't think to inquire where she got
    Line 10521 - Query word inquire

only a sayin' I didn't like such a roundabout way o' helpin' him."
    Line 10530 - Query word sayin

here. The major wouldn't never think o' askin' who owned it."
    Line 10545 - Query word owned

A shriek rang out among the evergreens. Hastening to the spot, the
    Line 10549 - Query word rang

curious spectators found Nora lying in a faint. Beside her was the
    Line 10550 - Query word faint

hung on his body in ashes. The discovery produced that silence which
    Line 10554 - Query word ashes

overcoming their timidity, they pressed closer and soon became
    Line 10558 - Query word pressed

"Ah! what have we here?" exclaimed Rorus. "Another murder! Another
    Line 10561 - Query word Ah

"Certainly, certainly," said Dr. Rorus, breathing fumes of whiskey in
    Line 10567 - Query word breathing

"Certainly, certainly," said Dr. Rorus, breathing fumes of whiskey in
    Line 10567 - Query word whiskey

worst curse this country ever had and the most destructive to its
    Line 10573 - Query word curse

worst curse this country ever had and the most destructive to its
    Line 10573 - Query word destructive

Sparks chose the jury and began to make inquiries about witnesses.
    Line 10576 - Query word inquiries

Sparks chose the jury and began to make inquiries about witnesses.
    Line 10576 - Query word witnesses

"Can't be helped," said Rorus. "Can't be helped. Millions of men have
    Line 10586 - Query word helped

"Can't be helped," said Rorus. "Can't be helped. Millions of men have
    Line 10586 - Query word helped

The major at last arose from the timber. Hearing the dispute in the
    Line 10593 - Query word dispute

Jake reluctantly yielded. The major pushed his way through and came
    Line 10602 - Query word yielded

had perished in the act of destroying his home. His golden idol was
    Line 10606 - Query word destroying

of unutterable despair and went back to the hewn timber. Neither
    Line 10608 - Query word hewn

Sparks nor Rorus had the heart to insist on his revisiting the spot.
    Line 10609 - Query word insist

"Come, Uncle James," said Manie, slipping her arm through his, "we
    Line 10618 - Query word slipping

the ashes of the tool-house but at last yielded more to the gentle
    Line 10623 - Query word ashes

the ashes of the tool-house but at last yielded more to the gentle
    Line 10623 - Query word yielded

forehead and went silently with his niece.
    Line 10626 - Query word silently

CHAPTER XXVIII.
    Line 10629 - Query word XXVIII

JOHN HEARS AN ACCOUNT OF HIS ADVENTURE.
    Line 10630 - Query word ADVENTURE

The morning after his visit to Ratke's John left Mrs. Boyle's house.
    Line 10632 - Query word Boyle's

To the very last she opposed his departure.
    Line 10633 - Query word opposed

"I have special reasons for wanting you to stay, John," she said. "I
    Line 10635 - Query word reasons

"Then," said Mrs. Boyle, "you'll tell me where you are going."
    Line 10640 - Query word Boyle

hats. One hat was girt with a flat and one with a round braid. The
    Line 10651 - Query word girt

admirer of the other, for he simulated many of his actions. He was
    Line 10653 - Query word admirer

admirer of the other, for he simulated many of his actions. He was
    Line 10653 - Query word actions

most anxious to acquire the dexterity which his companion exhibited
    Line 10654 - Query word dexterity

most anxious to acquire the dexterity which his companion exhibited
    Line 10654 - Query word exhibited

in ejecting tobacco-spittle through his teeth in a fine stream. He
    Line 10655 - Query word tobacco

attempted this feat so frequently, and his teacher gave him so
    Line 10656 - Query word frequently

train his mustache to curl upward and then lop down at the ends as
    Line 10662 - Query word train

train his mustache to curl upward and then lop down at the ends as
    Line 10662 - Query word lop

train his mustache to curl upward and then lop down at the ends as
    Line 10662 - Query word ends

"Oh, I got that to Port Huron," said the one addressed with the air
    Line 10665 - Query word Huron

imitator, sending a small stream of tobacco-juice almost into the
    Line 10669 - Query word tobacco

queer mixture of luggage subjected to such treatment. Without the
    Line 10673 - Query word queer

queer mixture of luggage subjected to such treatment. Without the
    Line 10673 - Query word mixture

haste and nervousness with which most women would have performed the
    Line 10674 - Query word women

task, she arranged the several parts of her baggage and prepared for
    Line 10675 - Query word arranged

task, she arranged the several parts of her baggage and prepared for
    Line 10675 - Query word parts

"The train's a comin'," said a rustic looking man who had been
    Line 10703 - Query word rustic

watching from the outside.
    Line 10704 - Query word outside

last few jerks before the total suspension of motion. A blue cloud
    Line 10710 - Query word jerks

and an odor of tobacco announced to him that in his haste he had
    Line 10711 - Query word tobacco

taken the smoking-car. With the consolation that there were worse
    Line 10712 - Query word car

odors than that of tobacco and that he was in the presence of
    Line 10713 - Query word tobacco

strangers, he seated himself, but his brief season of congratulation
    Line 10714 - Query word brief

discussing his adventure.
    Line 10716 - Query word adventure

After a few preliminary puffs and jerks the engine started with its
    Line 10718 - Query word jerks

recognition by his former pursuer could keep him from sending a
    Line 10722 - Query word recognition

whose extent was painfully uncertain, he would often in his boundless
    Line 10725 - Query word uncertain

forgotten. And how, when he had fed on the husks of dreams and found
    Line 10730 - Query word fed

forgotten. And how, when he had fed on the husks of dreams and found
    Line 10730 - Query word dreams

in them no nutriment, would he grow restless, waiting for the reality
    Line 10731 - Query word nutriment

in them no nutriment, would he grow restless, waiting for the reality
    Line 10731 - Query word restless

aroused from his reverie by some negroes in front of him noisily
    Line 10734 - Query word aroused

aroused from his reverie by some negroes in front of him noisily
    Line 10734 - Query word reverie

aroused from his reverie by some negroes in front of him noisily
    Line 10734 - Query word noisily

talk, which was likely to prove interesting to him.
    Line 10737 - Query word likely

talk, which was likely to prove interesting to him.
    Line 10737 - Query word interesting

watch the house nights. They didn't stay away only one day. They come
    Line 10758 - Query word nights

back, and one night Jim Turner was a watching --he thinks there never
    Line 10759 - Query word thinks

At the next station a young fellow walked into the smoking-car.
    Line 10766 - Query word station

At the next station a young fellow walked into the smoking-car.
    Line 10766 - Query word car

tried to recollect where he had heard that voice, as he was certain
    Line 10773 - Query word tried

tried to recollect where he had heard that voice, as he was certain
    Line 10773 - Query word recollect

that he had met its owner, but he soon became assured of the young
    Line 10774 - Query word owner

at the new arrival. A boy came into the car selling books, pamphlets
    Line 10778 - Query word car

at the new arrival. A boy came into the car selling books, pamphlets
    Line 10778 - Query word selling

toward him, but who would, according to all likelihood, occasionally
    Line 10781 - Query word occasionally

glance backward as he conversed with his companions. "Oh, yes. We was
    Line 10782 - Query word glance

glance backward as he conversed with his companions. "Oh, yes. We was
    Line 10782 - Query word companions

"Yes, I did," assented Turner, "That is, purty near there. I come
    Line 10790 - Query word assented

"Nor I neither," answered Turner. "Funniest thing I ever heard of. I
    Line 10797 - Query word Funniest

head on him, Mister Man, if he is cracked about his Jerusalem wagon.
    Line 10799 - Query word Mister

head on him, Mister Man, if he is cracked about his Jerusalem wagon.
    Line 10799 - Query word cracked

At this point Turner's companions got into a trivial discussion over
    Line 10807 - Query word companions

which they staked a quantity of beer. John ventured to look out of a
    Line 10808 - Query word beer

which they staked a quantity of beer. John ventured to look out of a
    Line 10808 - Query word ventured

window. Fence posts and telegraph-poles were rushing swiftly by,
    Line 10809 - Query word swiftly

apparent speed varying according to the proximity of the spectator to
    Line 10811 - Query word apparent

apparent speed varying according to the proximity of the spectator to
    Line 10811 - Query word speed

him and the more distant ones. The country was comparatively level,
    Line 10813 - Query word distant

him and the more distant ones. The country was comparatively level,
    Line 10813 - Query word comparatively

drought were everywhere apparent. One marsh was blackened by fire and
    Line 10817 - Query word apparent

drought were everywhere apparent. One marsh was blackened by fire and
    Line 10817 - Query word blackened

overhung by stubby willows.
    Line 10819 - Query word willows

Junction left the train. Sharptown was built on the first of a series
    Line 10822 - Query word train

Junction left the train. Sharptown was built on the first of a series
    Line 10822 - Query word series

were halting at a small station, John saw, even through the
    Line 10828 - Query word station

Wrengell terminated his ride at Ann Arbor. He ascended a rise of
    Line 10833 - Query word terminated

Wrengell terminated his ride at Ann Arbor. He ascended a rise of
    Line 10833 - Query word ascended

Wrengell terminated his ride at Ann Arbor. He ascended a rise of
    Line 10833 - Query word rise

fellow who had the air of a student.
    Line 10837 - Query word student

building with parts built on it. Just beyond it you will see another
    Line 10846 - Query word parts

CHAPTER XXIX.
    Line 10867 - Query word XXIX

AMONG THE INVALIDS.
    Line 10868 - Query word INVALIDS

the street. From the rear of the square part, at either side,
    Line 10871 - Query word street

amphitheater, in which surgical operations were performed.
    Line 10876 - Query word operations

The man to whom the student had alluded had gone inside the yard, and
    Line 10878 - Query word student

The man to whom the student had alluded had gone inside the yard, and
    Line 10878 - Query word alluded

was about to enter the men's ward. He was a sandy-haired man of about
    Line 10879 - Query word haired

fifty, with very thin, sandy whiskers. A defective mustache and a
    Line 10880 - Query word whiskers

beardless strip on either side of his under-lip exposed in its full
    Line 10881 - Query word lip

beardless strip on either side of his under-lip exposed in its full
    Line 10881 - Query word exposed

ugliness his mouth, which was repulsive in the extreme. His face was
    Line 10882 - Query word repulsive

red and unprepossessing, as if liquor had swollen its veins and
    Line 10883 - Query word veins

but which lifted the few hairs on his upper lip and uncovered his
    Line 10887 - Query word lip

A long hall separated the two divisions which were allotted to the
    Line 10898 - Query word hall

A long hall separated the two divisions which were allotted to the
    Line 10898 - Query word separated

A long hall separated the two divisions which were allotted to the
    Line 10898 - Query word divisions

respective sexes. The men's ward was a large room with a row of
    Line 10899 - Query word row

narrow beds on each side, which were capable of holding comfortably
    Line 10900 - Query word holding

wash-bowl and a pitcher. The white face of one invalid rested on a
    Line 10902 - Query word wash

wash-bowl and a pitcher. The white face of one invalid rested on a
    Line 10902 - Query word rested

were, as a rule, of a chronic nature and, with the exception of
    Line 10905 - Query word rule

were, as a rule, of a chronic nature and, with the exception of
    Line 10905 - Query word chronic

occupation. Some were conversing in pairs. One man was entertaining
    Line 10909 - Query word conversing

occupation. Some were conversing in pairs. One man was entertaining
    Line 10909 - Query word pairs

several listeners with an anecdote of the civil war.
    Line 10910 - Query word listeners

several listeners with an anecdote of the civil war.
    Line 10910 - Query word civil

"They come from all over," said John's new acquaintance, "from New
    Line 10912 - Query word acquaintance

York and Massachusetts and from California, and one from Texas. This
    Line 10913 - Query word York

"Very good plan," said his new acquaintance. "Make the best of your
    Line 10920 - Query word acquaintance

"I guess we're pretty near relatives," said the man, again lifting
    Line 10935 - Query word pretty

"I guess we're pretty near relatives," said the man, again lifting
    Line 10935 - Query word relatives

"Quite a bit," said the disagreeable stranger, "as much as any man
    Line 10941 - Query word disagreeable

"I was sure of it," said the elder Wrengell, grasping John's hand.
    Line 10947 - Query word elder

"I was sure of it," said the elder Wrengell, grasping John's hand.
    Line 10947 - Query word grasping

"I've found my nephew that I haven't heard anything of for eight
    Line 10948 - Query word nephew

is my nephew, Mr. Wrengell."
    Line 10952 - Query word nephew

John, in an embarrassed way, explained to the medical man that he
    Line 10958 - Query word medical

wished a deformity removed. He was assured that on the morrow the
    Line 10959 - Query word morrow

"Mrs. May," he said, "I'll introduce my nephew, Mr. Wrengell, John
    Line 10965 - Query word nephew

"I suppose you know the rules of this establishment, Mr. Wrengell?"
    Line 10968 - Query word rules

"No, I do not," said John, afraid that in his ignorance he had broken
    Line 10971 - Query word ignorance

some rule of the hospital.
    Line 10972 - Query word rule

"Oh, he isn't used to this place, you know," said the elder Wrengell
    Line 10974 - Query word elder

"The rule is to pay a week's board in advance," said Mrs. May, "three
    Line 10977 - Query word rule

Hereafter in speaking of John we will omit his surname, applying it
    Line 10983 - Query word Hereafter

Hereafter in speaking of John we will omit his surname, applying it
    Line 10983 - Query word speaking

in distinction only to the elder Wrengell. John's spirits sank to a
    Line 10984 - Query word elder

in distinction only to the elder Wrengell. John's spirits sank to a
    Line 10984 - Query word spirits

in distinction only to the elder Wrengell. John's spirits sank to a
    Line 10984 - Query word sank

sensitive and aspiring, could least afford to be hampered by so
    Line 10986 - Query word sensitive

sensitive and aspiring, could least afford to be hampered by so
    Line 10986 - Query word afford

looked to John to be the fitting garb of the sot and convict. The
    Line 10988 - Query word garb

sand-colored coat was of the same hue as one which John had warn when
    Line 10989 - Query word colored

he attended district school. He well remembered that garment, which
    Line 10990 - Query word attended

had awakened so much ridicule. The boys had jerked him down by it.
    Line 10991 - Query word jerked

Once they had stripped it from him, torn it and almost buried it in
    Line 10992 - Query word stripped

taken him a long lime to find it. Ever since then he had hated
    Line 10995 - Query word lime

sand-colored coats.
    Line 10996 - Query word colored

sand-colored coats.
    Line 10996 - Query word coats

associations, ignorance was loosing its grip, poverty had already
    Line 10999 - Query word associations

associations, ignorance was loosing its grip, poverty had already
    Line 10999 - Query word ignorance

associations, ignorance was loosing its grip, poverty had already
    Line 10999 - Query word grip

parted with much of its evil power, they were all about to slacken
    Line 11000 - Query word parted

his uncle and heard him give his affectionate regards to his nephew
    Line 11003 - Query word nephew

"Johnny"? Had he known, as he stood before the hospital, the
    Line 11004 - Query word Johnny

"Johnny," said Wrengell, "you didn't tell me whether you'd ever lived
    Line 11009 - Query word Johnny

speculations to be overheard.
    Line 11013 - Query word overheard

have some curiosity. I see you don't think we're any relation."
    Line 11022 - Query word relation

a man ought to know about his nephew. You lived with a man by the
    Line 11030 - Query word nephew

section, but there's a swamp in the northeast corner of his farm, a
    Line 11032 - Query word section

was tall, like you. Now, I can tell you how old you are. You was born
    Line 11041 - Query word born

Correction at Ionia. The way of it was, a fellow Dan was intimate
    Line 11050 - Query word intimate

him. Now, Johnny, are you going to disown me, your uncle, the only
    Line 11053 - Query word Johnny

say nothing of our family affairs before listeners."
    Line 11058 - Query word listeners

"That's a good plan," assented Wrengell. "We've been unlucky, the
    Line 11060 - Query word assented

The following day surgical operations were performed in the clinical
    Line 11063 - Query word operations

amphitheater, and John parted with his sixth toe. He felt no
    Line 11064 - Query word parted

reluctance at the separation. The member had rendered him no service,
    Line 11065 - Query word rendered

had given him no comfort. He could not help reflecting, however that
    Line 11066 - Query word reflecting

he had exchanged a concealed for an open disgrace.
    Line 11067 - Query word concealed

amputation. He brought him water and tried to smile encouragingly on
    Line 11070 - Query word tried

detested recollections constantly before his eyes. Several days after
    Line 11072 - Query word recollections

detested recollections constantly before his eyes. Several days after
    Line 11072 - Query word constantly

crutches. "I thought you'd need these, Johnny," he said. "You see
    Line 11074 - Query word Johnny

"Now, Johnny, I feel as though I'd like to," said Wrengell. "You will
    Line 11085 - Query word Johnny

maimed foot made rapid progress toward recovery. It was, no doubt,
    Line 11089 - Query word rapid

fortunate on account of his sprained ankle, which was not entirely
    Line 11090 - Query word fortunate

At times the thought occurred to him that he might be followed and
    Line 11092 - Query word occurred

aversion to adopting a subterfuge which was worthy of his ignoble
    Line 11096 - Query word worthy

so I ought to get help, from old Genesee County, New York, They had
    Line 11107 - Query word York

good deal about Ann Arbor. My friends they kept harping, 'Ann Arbor,
    Line 11109 - Query word friends

The dissatisfied New Yorker picked up his paper and scanned a column
    Line 11118 - Query word dissatisfied

then went back and set a big house afire.'
    Line 11123 - Query word afire

"Maybe you'd like to read it," said the New Yorker, handing John the
    Line 11127 - Query word handing

family of the major was unbounded. He tried, to smother the thought
    Line 11133 - Query word tried

that the event, so disastrous to his friends, had raised his prospect
    Line 11134 - Query word event

that the event, so disastrous to his friends, had raised his prospect
    Line 11134 - Query word friends

which he felt for harboring it more than equaled the satisfaction
    Line 11137 - Query word equaled

He immediately wrote a letter to Manie, expressing his sorrow for
    Line 11140 - Query word wrote

He immediately wrote a letter to Manie, expressing his sorrow for
    Line 11140 - Query word expressing

He immediately wrote a letter to Manie, expressing his sorrow for
    Line 11140 - Query word sorrow

their loss. Ignorant of the extent of the major's misfortunes, he
    Line 11141 - Query word Ignorant

their loss. Ignorant of the extent of the major's misfortunes, he
    Line 11141 - Query word misfortunes

supposed that he would remain on his farm where he would erect a new
    Line 11142 - Query word erect

on the stand by his bed, he prepared to go to the street.
    Line 11145 - Query word street

you think rather hard of me, Johnny," he began when they were on the
    Line 11152 - Query word Johnny

"I reckoned likely," pursued Wrengell. "I've been slandered. I was
    Line 11157 - Query word likely

unfortunate, as he told you, of course, and got behind the bars in
    Line 11158 - Query word bars

Jackson. But, Johnny, I wasn't guilty. I swear to you on my word of
    Line 11159 - Query word Johnny

Jackson. But, Johnny, I wasn't guilty. I swear to you on my word of
    Line 11159 - Query word guilty

honor, the word of honor of your uncle, I wasn't guilty. I don't
    Line 11160 - Query word guilty

blame the jury nor the judge. My freedom was swore away, and it was
    Line 11161 - Query word judge

blame the jury nor the judge. My freedom was swore away, and it was
    Line 11161 - Query word swore

done by a fellow I'd helped a good deal. Some things was took from a
    Line 11162 - Query word helped

officer arrested me for it, for I knew I could prove my good
    Line 11165 - Query word arrested

'Let 'em work,' I said. 'My reputation is too good for me to be hurt
    Line 11172 - Query word reputation

warning that I was going to die to-morrow, I'd will my property to
    Line 11176 - Query word morrow

sure you wouldn't keep a cent.' But I was beat when Bill Weeks swore
    Line 11178 - Query word swore

knew that settled it, and I might as well throw up the sponge. I'd
    Line 11180 - Query word throw

helped Bill to get the position he had as clerk, and pushed him along
    Line 11181 - Query word helped

every way I could. He was intimate with my folks. The day I was
    Line 11182 - Query word intimate

arrested, it was raining. He spent his money as fast as he earned it
    Line 11183 - Query word arrested

The jury brought in a verdict of guilty. The judge didn't believe I
    Line 11189 - Query word guilty

The jury brought in a verdict of guilty. The judge didn't believe I
    Line 11189 - Query word judge

evidence. He was in tears when he done it. Chandler, he was mad. He
    Line 11191 - Query word tears

it out, he told him it would be his last term and so it was. Lots of
    Line 11194 - Query word Lots

heard from your father lately, Johnny?"
    Line 11201 - Query word lately

heard from your father lately, Johnny?"
    Line 11201 - Query word Johnny

"No," was John's brief answer.
    Line 11203 - Query word brief

only she was peculiar. She would drink hard. I think maybe that was
    Line 11214 - Query word drink

liquor, she didn't think how wrong it was to take what didn't belong
    Line 11216 - Query word belong

Imagine the sensations of John while he was listening to the
    Line 11219 - Query word Imagine

CHAPTER XXX.
    Line 11224 - Query word XXX

THE BEGINNING OF MYSTERY.
    Line 11225 - Query word MYSTERY

in the middle of the day. As John drew near the group, but one voice
    Line 11229 - Query word group

was distinguishable and that was speaking as follows:
    Line 11230 - Query word speaking

"There was a man out in Lenawee had a bunch on his neck like that,
    Line 11232 - Query word Lenawee

only it was on the left side instead of the right. He'd been here,
    Line 11233 - Query word He'd

and he'd been to one of these traveling doctors that tucks his
    Line 11234 - Query word he'd

advertisements and his pictures in the papers. Get help? Of course he
    Line 11235 - Query word pictures

didn't get any help. Then, after he'd tried everything else, I sold
    Line 11236 - Query word he'd

didn't get any help. Then, after he'd tried everything else, I sold
    Line 11236 - Query word tried

fastened to a barrel of cider, and he'd churn the barrel up and down.
    Line 11246 - Query word he'd

"I'll be through here directly," said Panicky, "now, if this don't
    Line 11261 - Query word directly

was blowing his nose.
    Line 11265 - Query word nose

"Three weeks," echoed the sufferer, "you're wild. You're just talking
    Line 11273 - Query word sufferer

a bit. This is on the same principle as taking off a swelling, you
    Line 11280 - Query word principle

destroying inflammation and clearing the nasal passages."
    Line 11282 - Query word destroying

"Now, I'll tell you what I'll do. If you get sick of your bargain,
    Line 11288 - Query word bargain

"Come along this way," said Panicky, grabbing his satchels and
    Line 11294 - Query word grabbing

"I can't explain it," said Panicky. "I was sent by a certain person
    Line 11305 - Query word explain

"I can't explain it," said Panicky. "I was sent by a certain person
    Line 11305 - Query word person

"Who is the person?" asked John.
    Line 11308 - Query word person

"I will go," said John, as his mind reverted to the elder Wrengell.
    Line 11314 - Query word elder

"Then get what you've got to get, and let's be out of this," said
    Line 11316 - Query word let's

"You ain't going away are you. Johnny?" asked Wrengell.
    Line 11323 - Query word Johnny

prophet.
    Line 11332 - Query word prophet

"Johnny," said Wrengell, following after him, "there's something I
    Line 11336 - Query word Johnny

want to tell you. There's a fortune in England for the Wrengells.
    Line 11337 - Query word fortune

Now, you've got the education, and you can look it up. You're the
    Line 11338 - Query word education

passing through the long hall. "Poor fellow, his freedom was swore
    Line 11345 - Query word hall

passing through the long hall. "Poor fellow, his freedom was swore
    Line 11345 - Query word swore

away. As likely a boy as ever lived."
    Line 11346 - Query word likely

"Don't waste much time," said Panicky, when the twain had slowly
    Line 11348 - Query word twain

"Johnny!" exclaimed Wrengell, as if a valuable idea had suddenly
    Line 11351 - Query word Johnny

"Johnny!" exclaimed Wrengell, as if a valuable idea had suddenly
    Line 11351 - Query word idea

urge his company after it's declined."
    Line 11361 - Query word urge

urge his company after it's declined."
    Line 11361 - Query word declined

"Good-bye, Johnny," said Wrengell, with an evil look at the peddler,
    Line 11363 - Query word Johnny

which intensified John's dislike of him. "Don't forget your uncle."
    Line 11364 - Query word dislike

by a call from behind; and turning, they beheld the man from New York
    Line 11367 - Query word York

"They won't let us keep these bottles," said the catarrhal sufferer,
    Line 11370 - Query word sufferer

"How can they help themselves?" said Panicky. "This is a free
    Line 11373 - Query word free

"You'll have to take this back as you said you would," firmly
    Line 11383 - Query word firmly

"I hope you'll recover speedily, gentlemen," remarked the peddler,
    Line 11391 - Query word recover

"I hope you'll recover speedily, gentlemen," remarked the peddler,
    Line 11391 - Query word gentlemen

"Hold on there, you low-lived smouse," cried the indignant New
    Line 11395 - Query word smouse

"Hold on there, you low-lived smouse," cried the indignant New
    Line 11395 - Query word indignant

victim in the manner when he might have employed to pronounce a
    Line 11402 - Query word employed

funeral oration. "You said we could return the medicine when we
    Line 11403 - Query word funeral

For a moment the New Yorker was speechless. Then the veins stood out
    Line 11412 - Query word veins

sufferer.
    Line 11417 - Query word sufferer

"Now, that would be unreasonable," returned Panicky, "unless there
    Line 11419 - Query word unreasonable

was such an understanding. I said I would take them back, and that's
    Line 11420 - Query word understanding

side-walk and leaving his dissatisfied customers.
    Line 11423 - Query word dissatisfied

side-walk and leaving his dissatisfied customers.
    Line 11423 - Query word customers

paving-stones with Great American Panacea.
    Line 11426 - Query word stones

"What a waste," remarked Panicky to John. "That might have preserved
    Line 11428 - Query word preserved

Panicky joined John immediately after his repulse by the teamster.
    Line 11432 - Query word repulse

His strides were so rapid that his crippled companion was soon left
    Line 11433 - Query word rapid

His strides were so rapid that his crippled companion was soon left
    Line 11433 - Query word crippled

in the rear. "Can't you let out a notch or two?" he said. "We ought
    Line 11434 - Query word notch

"We could get along faster if we took a more even pace," returned
    Line 11437 - Query word pace

"That can't be helped," said Panicky. "I have got my work to do for
    Line 11440 - Query word helped

or hail, I must travel and give help to the afflicted. When we stop
    Line 11442 - Query word travel

or hail, I must travel and give help to the afflicted. When we stop
    Line 11442 - Query word afflicted

"Where are you going to take me?" asked John. "How can you expect me
    Line 11446 - Query word expect

Don't ask me any more questions unless it's fun for you, because I
    Line 11453 - Query word questions

"Come down to the Central depot," said Panicky, handing John a
    Line 11459 - Query word handing

The untiring peddler was talking earnestly to a laboring man, who
    Line 11464 - Query word earnestly

wore a woolen shirt traversed horizontally by alternate stripes of
    Line 11465 - Query word shirt

red and squares of red and gray. He sought his customers, John
    Line 11466 - Query word gray

red and squares of red and gray. He sought his customers, John
    Line 11466 - Query word customers

noticed, among the farming and laboring classes, rather than among
    Line 11467 - Query word classes

the train, trying to sell a bottle of the panacea to a man who had a
    Line 11469 - Query word train

westward, he seized every chance to prosecute his business. His
    Line 11471 - Query word westward

conductor. There was no disease for which he had not a specific, and
    Line 11473 - Query word specific

only in location or in being more serious.
    Line 11475 - Query word serious

the car in which John was seated. She looked curiously at him, but
    Line 11479 - Query word car

they were waiting at Jackson. He would answer no questions, but
    Line 11483 - Query word questions

finally ordered that his charge, who he evidently thought was a
    Line 11484 - Query word finally

finally ordered that his charge, who he evidently thought was a
    Line 11484 - Query word charge

car window.
    Line 11489 - Query word car

The surroundings of the depot were far from pleasing. Before it was a
    Line 11493 - Query word surroundings

brick, which a high, smoke-blackened chimney, did not hide. The
    Line 11495 - Query word blackened

brick, which a high, smoke-blackened chimney, did not hide. The
    Line 11495 - Query word chimney

richest part of the city, whose roofs and steeples alone were
    Line 11496 - Query word richest

visible, lay to the westward.
    Line 11497 - Query word westward

alongside the railroad track through a cut. From a car on a
    Line 11501 - Query word car

side-track a good-natured looking man was loading stove-wood into a
    Line 11502 - Query word natured

side-track a good-natured looking man was loading stove-wood into a
    Line 11502 - Query word stove

"I know what will fix that in a hurry," said Panicky. "Cobb's
    Line 11512 - Query word fix

"Coughs, wheezing, running at the nose, colds, animal influenza,
    Line 11520 - Query word nose

"Then you've found out it's a grand thing," said Panicky. "Didn't it
    Line 11526 - Query word grand

had gone but a few rods when he riveted his gaze on a robust
    Line 11534 - Query word gaze

"Must we stop again?" asked John. "Take me to my destination and then
    Line 11537 - Query word destination

"Young man," replied the peddler severely, "you are too
    Line 11540 - Query word severely

narrow-minded. You think the world was made for you and your petty
    Line 11541 - Query word petty

concerns. You must broaden out and get sympathy for humanity."
    Line 11542 - Query word humanity

The track ran through a piece of high ground which descended to the
    Line 11544 - Query word descended

west. The hillside at the east, covered with scraggy brush, stood out
    Line 11545 - Query word hillside

in bold relief; but the view at the right was limited, because of its
    Line 11546 - Query word limited

swift descent to the hidden river and the low elevation of the track.
    Line 11547 - Query word descent

Scattered along on the small rises of ground which overlooked the
    Line 11548 - Query word rises

one of these little buildings a smooth-faced old man wearing a Scotch
    Line 11550 - Query word smooth

cap was bent low, cutting stove-wood with a dull buck-saw.
    Line 11551 - Query word cutting

cap was bent low, cutting stove-wood with a dull buck-saw.
    Line 11551 - Query word stove

cap was bent low, cutting stove-wood with a dull buck-saw.
    Line 11551 - Query word dull

"There ain't nothin' easy about it," said the wood-sawyer, suspending
    Line 11555 - Query word suspending

"Yes, real. Sometimes I'm purty near played. I used to be so I could
    Line 11560 - Query word played

"Yes, it's deficient vigor in the back. Muscles lax, spinal column
    Line 11581 - Query word Muscles

finally downs you."
    Line 11583 - Query word finally

"It ain't at all likely," returned Panicky. "You'll probably be a
    Line 11588 - Query word likely

cripple and linger along for some years. But you mustn't be
    Line 11589 - Query word mustn't

breaking in on his dull understanding, "I don't believe I want none.
    Line 11611 - Query word dull

breaking in on his dull understanding, "I don't believe I want none.
    Line 11611 - Query word understanding

"You better take a bottle. Mister," urged Panicky.
    Line 11614 - Query word Mister

"I don't want none," said the old man with decision.
    Line 11618 - Query word decision

of Mercy wouldn't be the thing for you."
    Line 11621 - Query word Mercy

"Grand." answered Panicky, opening a satchel and drawing out a thin
    Line 11625 - Query word Grand

bottle of colorless liquid. "It's Spanish medicine, got up by the
    Line 11626 - Query word Spanish

smartest man there is in all Spain. There you see the directions are
    Line 11627 - Query word directions

in Spanish and English, too."
    Line 11628 - Query word Spanish

in Spanish and English, too."
    Line 11628 - Query word English

"I ain't a-hankerin' to take no mullein nor sage," said the old man.
    Line 11637 - Query word hankerin

an' I ain't crazy for mullein no more. I won't buy no medicine
    Line 11640 - Query word crazy

African chief, he was a great fellow to fight, and he'd always fight
    Line 11650 - Query word African

African chief, he was a great fellow to fight, and he'd always fight
    Line 11650 - Query word he'd

with a club. Once, when he was having a battle with another tribe, he
    Line 11651 - Query word tribe

got a lick in the back that about used him up. He couldn't run and he
    Line 11652 - Query word lick

Every morning he'd get up and see if he couldn't fetch the war-club
    Line 11654 - Query word he'd

around, but it wasn't any use. His enemies commenced to press him on
    Line 11655 - Query word enemies

every side, and as he couldn't fight, of course his men got whipped.
    Line 11656 - Query word whipped

in his kingdom to prescribe for him, but his back grew worse, instead
    Line 11660 - Query word grew

they didn't relieve him inside of six months, off would go their
    Line 11662 - Query word months

think a patient was on the gain, when he'd up and die. They'd try
    Line 11671 - Query word gain

think a patient was on the gain, when he'd up and die. They'd try
    Line 11671 - Query word he'd

five kinds of medicine, and six, and eight, and twelve. They'd try
    Line 11672 - Query word twelve

four and different parts of a lot of others.
    Line 11674 - Query word parts

They fixed the chief up a few doses of the same stuff, and he was
    Line 11677 - Query word fixed

throw it in a curve around one of his men and hit an enemy. His back
    Line 11679 - Query word throw

throw it in a curve around one of his men and hit an enemy. His back
    Line 11679 - Query word enemy

grew so stout that he didn't like a light club any more. He had a
    Line 11680 - Query word grew

shape. There never was another such a fellow to shake a war-club in
    Line 11682 - Query word shake

medicine men practice up on the prisoners, hitting 'em in the back
    Line 11685 - Query word practice

and curing 'em. He give 'em directions that they should never let
    Line 11686 - Query word directions

herbs, and sent 'em here. He named it Great Wangamyika discovery."
    Line 11690 - Query word herbs

Panicky instructed his customer how to use the medicine. He must rub
    Line 11702 - Query word instructed

it in thoroughly, half of the time stroking downward and half
    Line 11703 - Query word downward

crosswise.
    Line 11704 - Query word crosswise

crossing the railroad bridge, turned to the right and followed the
    Line 11707 - Query word crossing

crossing the railroad bridge, turned to the right and followed the
    Line 11707 - Query word bridge

stream, leaving it, however, when they had reached the next street
    Line 11708 - Query word street

peddler. Whether the walls were of stone or of brick, John, who knew
    Line 11717 - Query word walls

on a rise of ground too gradual and low to be called a hill, it was,
    Line 11719 - Query word rise

on a rise of ground too gradual and low to be called a hill, it was,
    Line 11719 - Query word gradual

saving its preponderance of length,
    Line 11720 - Query word saving

    "A tower of strength that stood four square.
    Line 11722 - Query word strength

One of the most efficient aids in giving it an aspect of majesty was
    Line 11725 - Query word majesty

street through the yard, the drive-winding carelessly up, as if its
    Line 11729 - Query word street

street through the yard, the drive-winding carelessly up, as if its
    Line 11729 - Query word winding

street through the yard, the drive-winding carelessly up, as if its
    Line 11729 - Query word carelessly

course had been fixed by unassisted and unrestrained circumstance. As
    Line 11730 - Query word fixed

course had been fixed by unassisted and unrestrained circumstance. As
    Line 11730 - Query word unrestrained

they opened the gate before the path, a man came out into the porch,
    Line 11731 - Query word porch

stood a brief space of time, and answered some questions which were
    Line 11732 - Query word brief

stood a brief space of time, and answered some questions which were
    Line 11732 - Query word questions

up there and knock."
    Line 11737 - Query word knock

The man in the porch walked swiftly out to meet John. When he left
    Line 11739 - Query word porch

The man in the porch walked swiftly out to meet John. When he left
    Line 11739 - Query word swiftly

the shadow of the house, his identity was no longer doubtful; he was
    Line 11740 - Query word shadow

the shadow of the house, his identity was no longer doubtful; he was
    Line 11740 - Query word doubtful

go to number one hundred and nine ---- Street. Tell the man you want
    Line 11748 - Query word Street

go out in the street, because I'm in a hurry and want to find you
    Line 11750 - Query word street

there when I come. I mean business. I'll make your fortune."
    Line 11751 - Query word fortune

point to-night. I can't explain now. I'm in a great hurry."
    Line 11758 - Query word explain

A woman rushed from the porch and interrupted John in his departure.
    Line 11760 - Query word porch

The woman led John through a hall, through another room and into a
    Line 11765 - Query word hall

On ordinary occasions John would have been quick to rebel against a
    Line 11770 - Query word occasions

expected revelation that he submitted with good grace.
    Line 11772 - Query word grace

John, with his expectations aroused to the highest pitch, went up a
    Line 11776 - Query word aroused

comparatively dark. As time passed curiosity gave place to
    Line 11783 - Query word comparatively

John's dissatisfaction with his quarters increased. Mrs. Boyle's
    Line 11786 - Query word dissatisfaction

John's dissatisfaction with his quarters increased. Mrs. Boyle's
    Line 11786 - Query word Boyle's

neglected warning to avoid Durgenson, coupled with the suspicious
    Line 11787 - Query word neglected

neglected warning to avoid Durgenson, coupled with the suspicious
    Line 11787 - Query word coupled

intensified his sense of insecurity.
    Line 11789 - Query word insecurity

While he was deliberating whether to cry out and demand release, or
    Line 11791 - Query word release

CHAPTER XXXI.
    Line 11798 - Query word XXXI

deadened sensation, and he had neither concern for the present nor
    Line 11803 - Query word sensation

deadened sensation, and he had neither concern for the present nor
    Line 11803 - Query word concern

anxiety for the future. At intervals he passed his palm across his
    Line 11804 - Query word anxiety

brow, generally repeating the act before he dropped his hand.
    Line 11805 - Query word repeating

"No," answered the major, "I am past suffering. All that can hurt me
    Line 11814 - Query word past

and east of it a diminutive shop in which its previous owner, a
    Line 11820 - Query word owner

Manie went to the residence of Holmes for remedies to apply to her
    Line 11825 - Query word apply

uncle's burned face and hands. She bathed them in oil and arranged a
    Line 11826 - Query word uncle's

uncle's burned face and hands. She bathed them in oil and arranged a
    Line 11826 - Query word oil

uncle's burned face and hands. She bathed them in oil and arranged a
    Line 11826 - Query word arranged

shade for his eyes. He did not seem to appreciate her kindness,
    Line 11827 - Query word shade

shade for his eyes. He did not seem to appreciate her kindness,
    Line 11827 - Query word appreciate

him. "How is he?" he asked, pointing toward the room where the major
    Line 11838 - Query word pointing

losing his mind. He don't realize much of anything that is going on.
    Line 11842 - Query word losing

Miss Green. I know she'll sell me a tree or two."
    Line 11848 - Query word she'll

Daggett purchased three fallen trees of Mrs. Green and proceeded
    Line 11850 - Query word purchased

across to the woods, which were in sight of the smouldering farmhouse
    Line 11851 - Query word farmhouse

successively obliged to desist from working with him.
    Line 11861 - Query word successively

"You chop, Will," said Daggett, "there can't no man saw with you."
    Line 11863 - Query word chop

struck off limb after limb, trimmed them and chopped them into
    Line 11866 - Query word trimmed

stove-wood with astonishing rapidity.
    Line 11867 - Query word stove

stove-wood with astonishing rapidity.
    Line 11867 - Query word rapidity

possible, systematically dragging the ashes and bringing to him
    Line 11873 - Query word systematically

possible, systematically dragging the ashes and bringing to him
    Line 11873 - Query word ashes

whatever he could conveniently pull. A pack of dogs was scouring
    Line 11874 - Query word pack

in chorus set up a prolonged yell. The startled Takum, followed by
    Line 11878 - Query word prolonged

his dogs, made swiftly for the woods, and he was not seen again by
    Line 11879 - Query word swiftly

narrative.
    Line 11888 - Query word narrative

York. He was soon in possession of the valuable beast, the speed of
    Line 11892 - Query word York

York. He was soon in possession of the valuable beast, the speed of
    Line 11892 - Query word speed

Nora, whose singular demeanor at any other time would have been
    Line 11895 - Query word demeanor

to live with her aunt in Ohio.
    Line 11898 - Query word Ohio

stating that his mother was dead and naming the date of her funeral.
    Line 11901 - Query word stating

stating that his mother was dead and naming the date of her funeral.
    Line 11901 - Query word funeral

Could he have arisen from his resting-place and stood upright, he
    Line 11905 - Query word resting

and his hope of eternity. Had he taken two steps, he would have been
    Line 11907 - Query word eternity

above the body of his victim. If withdrawing his gaze from the spot
    Line 11908 - Query word gaze

turned it to the right would have rested on the cottage which
    Line 11910 - Query word rested

sheltered Ratke, whose lethargic, nearly-demented condition of mind
    Line 11911 - Query word sheltered

he had helped to produce.
    Line 11912 - Query word helped

law. He procured an ax and chopped down the tree as speedily as
    Line 11917 - Query word procured

cutting of the timber was discovered. As the fall of the tree did not
    Line 11919 - Query word cutting

the ax struck a metallic substance which took from it a deep nick.
    Line 11922 - Query word metallic

long pocket-book, which, upon examination, he saw contained a large
    Line 11927 - Query word examination

roll of bills. He thought at once of the robbery in July, and,
    Line 11928 - Query word roll

forgetting the coon, started for Mrs. Green's house. Owing to the
    Line 11929 - Query word forgetting

forgetting the coon, started for Mrs. Green's house. Owing to the
    Line 11929 - Query word Owing

who never quite recovered from his terror of the midnight visitor by
    Line 11931 - Query word midnight

aroused by the half-wit, who broke the fastening to her bedroom door
    Line 11934 - Query word aroused

in her timber. Shortly after this event he called at the cottage by
    Line 11938 - Query word event

stated that Sheppard was going away from the neighborhood and begged
    Line 11941 - Query word begged

that Ratke would accept the money as a token of regard.
    Line 11942 - Query word token

that Ratke would accept the money as a token of regard.
    Line 11942 - Query word regard

few days succeeding the fire. He made an auction, and sold his
    Line 11945 - Query word succeeding

few days succeeding the fire. He made an auction, and sold his
    Line 11945 - Query word auction

personal property. When Taylor was taken away by a Jackson horseman,
    Line 11946 - Query word horseman

the handsome animal, trotting behind the owner's sulky as he was led
    Line 11948 - Query word handsome

distributed among his creditors, who were numerous. Most of them were
    Line 11951 - Query word creditors

distributed among his creditors, who were numerous. Most of them were
    Line 11951 - Query word numerous

spirit. He wrote them letters, stating his intention to liquidate
    Line 11955 - Query word wrote

spirit. He wrote them letters, stating his intention to liquidate
    Line 11955 - Query word stating

every dollar of his indebtedness, but affirming his resolution not to
    Line 11956 - Query word resolution

His former hired men saw him coming home night after tight,
    Line 11962 - Query word tight

stoop-shouldered and listless. They took a job of grubbing from
    Line 11963 - Query word shouldered

stoop-shouldered and listless. They took a job of grubbing from
    Line 11963 - Query word job

Holmes for twelve dollars and told him to let it to Ratke for twenty,
    Line 11964 - Query word twelve

and they would make up the difference to him. They instructed him
    Line 11965 - Query word instructed

also to say nothing of their connection with the affair to Ratke,
    Line 11966 - Query word connection

who, should he be made aware of it, would be certain to refuse the
    Line 11967 - Query word aware

charity. The major accepted Holmes's offer and labored with all his
    Line 11968 - Query word charity

charity. The major accepted Holmes's offer and labored with all his
    Line 11968 - Query word labored

strength at the grubbing.
    Line 11969 - Query word strength

Manie, on applying in several districts for a position as teacher,
    Line 11971 - Query word districts

The habits of Ratke had changed with the circumstances which
    Line 11976 - Query word habits

surrounded him. He was silent, but apparently not thoughtful. No
    Line 11977 - Query word thoughtful

over the arm of his rocking-chair, his chin resting on his hand, and
    Line 11979 - Query word resting

his elbow on his knee. No longer did he speculate or philosophize. He
    Line 11980 - Query word elbow

his elbow on his knee. No longer did he speculate or philosophize. He
    Line 11980 - Query word knee

seemed to be again sinking, with his grief forgotten, into a gradual
    Line 11981 - Query word grief

seemed to be again sinking, with his grief forgotten, into a gradual
    Line 11981 - Query word gradual

and peaceful decline. When he talked, which was seldom, it was
    Line 11982 - Query word peaceful

the absence of Manie, who came home every Saturday night and remained
    Line 11985 - Query word Saturday

the absence of Manie, who came home every Saturday night and remained
    Line 11985 - Query word remained

then repeat his question. Mrs. Grippin, who feared that he was going
    Line 11988 - Query word feared

which she had once detested. With the hope of seeing him once more at
    Line 11990 - Query word seeing

his studies, she borrowed a work on physics and some scientific
    Line 11991 - Query word studies

his studies, she borrowed a work on physics and some scientific
    Line 11991 - Query word scientific

journals, which she placed where she imagined they would come under
    Line 11992 - Query word imagined

his observation, but her ruse was unavailing. He did not notice them
    Line 11993 - Query word ruse

until they were alluded to by his sister, when he picked them up,
    Line 11994 - Query word alluded

apparently without interest, and threw them down with a sigh.
    Line 11995 - Query word sigh

Osborne, who had seven children and one hired man, on being informed
    Line 11998 - Query word informed

of her uncle's dangerous apathy came home every night and returned in
    Line 11999 - Query word uncle's

the morning. Ratke showed the first pleasure which he had exhibited
    Line 12000 - Query word pleasure

the morning. Ratke showed the first pleasure which he had exhibited
    Line 12000 - Query word exhibited

for weeks. No matter how tired he was, when he had finished his toil
    Line 12001 - Query word toil

talk, nor did it seem to be to hear her, for he was an indifferent
    Line 12003 - Query word indifferent

silently follows his master, or that of the dying horse which, when
    Line 12006 - Query word silently

breathe his last in his familiar stall. Years before, he had told her
    Line 12008 - Query word familiar

stories while she had sat on his knee and combed his hair. Now he had
    Line 12009 - Query word knee

his whim, and it was seldom that he had to remind her of his wish.
    Line 12011 - Query word remind

Mrs. Green, who wailed until after seeding to thresh her grain, one
    Line 12013 - Query word wailed

The next morning the major with his pitchfork appeared early at the
    Line 12015 - Query word early

house of his old enemy. He was given a place on the bundle stack, but
    Line 12016 - Query word enemy

the easy duty of holding bags. At noon Jim was obliged to leave on
    Line 12018 - Query word holding

straw-stack. Throughout the forenoon the halfwit had worked by the
    Line 12022 - Query word forenoon

who slid down the stack and was buried in the litterings at the
    Line 12034 - Query word slid

with whom, on the night of the expedition to Wallace's, the major had
    Line 12036 - Query word expedition

the horses bent their heads and tugged, the machine sang more loudly,
    Line 12039 - Query word sang

great masses up the carrier, to the head of which a suffocating cloud
    Line 12041 - Query word masses

The major, whose temper and dignity were aroused, stood at his post,
    Line 12044 - Query word temper

The major, whose temper and dignity were aroused, stood at his post,
    Line 12044 - Query word aroused

he wondered how much longer he could endure the strain. Most of the
    Line 12049 - Query word wondered

he wondered how much longer he could endure the strain. Most of the
    Line 12049 - Query word endure

trying to keep up an appearance of strength. He was at the point of
    Line 12052 - Query word strength

motion. Without waiting for his supper or his coat and vest, which,
    Line 12054 - Query word vest

of course, he had stripped off, he went away from the barn-yard, his
    Line 12055 - Query word stripped

breathing difficult, his eyes blinded and his face blackened with
    Line 12056 - Query word breathing

breathing difficult, his eyes blinded and his face blackened with
    Line 12056 - Query word blackened

"This ain't makin' wagons," remarked Sparks.
    Line 12063 - Query word makin

The words rankled deep in the majors breast, as with his pitchfork on
    Line 12065 - Query word breast

surrounded by his books and his inventions, he could smile at
    Line 12068 - Query word inventions

riddles; but now, removed from his defenses, he could not endure it.
    Line 12069 - Query word endure

Mrs. Gnppin had gone to visit Mrs. Boyle, with whom she expected to
    Line 12071 - Query word Boyle

chaff from his hair, a constable came to serve a summons on him in
    Line 12075 - Query word serve

behalf of the Empire Machine Company.
    Line 12076 - Query word behalf

"The completion of disgrace," said Ratke, after the man had gone. "I
    Line 12078 - Query word completion

cannot pay them. Judgment will be rendered against me, and I must
    Line 12079 - Query word rendered

have it thrown in my teeth that my promises are lies. How much more!
    Line 12080 - Query word lies

Oh, God, how much more can I endure!"
    Line 12081 - Query word endure

The sun, now a reddish ball, stripped of its fiery spikes, seemed
    Line 12087 - Query word stripped

thither from one of the declivities between which it rested. Its
    Line 12089 - Query word rested

of cloud, which was drawn asunder like curtains on a stage. The
    Line 12091 - Query word stage

major's gaze rested longest on the buildings which had been erected
    Line 12092 - Query word gaze

major's gaze rested longest on the buildings which had been erected
    Line 12092 - Query word rested

major's gaze rested longest on the buildings which had been erected
    Line 12092 - Query word erected

whose splendid reflections glimmered like wondrous lanterns among the
    Line 12095 - Query word glimmered

the cows. A night-hawk swept high over the major's head, carrying its
    Line 12098 - Query word swept

which had been left by the blacksmith who had previously owned the
    Line 12102 - Query word owned

fact, such was the case, for he had been exorbitant in his charges,
    Line 12105 - Query word fact

major loosened the saw-blade from the frame and fastened it with a
    Line 12108 - Query word blade

firmly to the wall. He tied a small rope to the other end of the saw
    Line 12110 - Query word firmly

a ring in the opposite wall, leaving the saw stretched horizontally
    Line 12112 - Query word ring

nearly under the saw a saw-horse on which he rested his head so that
    Line 12114 - Query word rested

Once more he stepped out into the cool evening air. The sun had
    Line 12119 - Query word cool

disappeared, and its light had ceased to tint the clouds along the
    Line 12120 - Query word ceased

"Ah," he said, "the cloud at the horizon is as red as the one at the
    Line 12124 - Query word Ah

position to see its brilliancy. If the light of merit has fallen on
    Line 12126 - Query word merit

me and my inventions, the world has not been in a situation to
    Line 12127 - Query word inventions

me and my inventions, the world has not been in a situation to
    Line 12127 - Query word situation

To no purpose had his philosophy been neglected; at the last hour it
    Line 12130 - Query word neglected

persistently returned, demanding that he should harbor it for a brief
    Line 12131 - Query word brief

space before he and it took their final separation. It mingled with
    Line 12132 - Query word final

"Oh, Trace, Trace!" he exclaimed, as his eyes fell on the graveyard,
    Line 12139 - Query word graveyard

old heart, and it has been cracking and crumbling ever since. I would
    Line 12141 - Query word cracking

to the approaching tragedy. In the morning, or, perhaps, that night,
    Line 12147 - Query word tragedy

cut in twain. He crawled under the saw and rested his head on the
    Line 12149 - Query word twain

cut in twain. He crawled under the saw and rested his head on the
    Line 12149 - Query word rested

saw-horse. He raised a scythe to strike a blow which would allow the
    Line 12150 - Query word scythe

Some one jerked him back, tipping over the saw-horse. Manie's arms
    Line 12153 - Query word jerked

were about his neck, her face close to his, her soothing voice in his
    Line 12154 - Query word soothing

ear. After pulling him gently away she struck the rope with the
    Line 12155 - Query word ear

scythe. The vicious force with which the spring propelled the saw
    Line 12156 - Query word scythe

scythe. The vicious force with which the spring propelled the saw
    Line 12156 - Query word propelled

showed how deadly an implement of destruction the major had planned.
    Line 12157 - Query word planned

economy of Nature, refuse which her creatures abhor, but which she
    Line 12161 - Query word economy

"You, too, have become my enemy," said Ratke. "No friend of mine
    Line 12168 - Query word enemy

suffered until I had no further capacity for suffering, but sensation
    Line 12170 - Query word sensation

only slept. It racks me now as it racked me before my mind fell into
    Line 12171 - Query word slept

"Trust in God," said Manie. "He can rescue you from any trouble."
    Line 12177 - Query word rescue

utterly," he added with an accent of incescribable despair. "Where is
    Line 12180 - Query word accent

Where are my books, which were my study and my comfort? Where are my
    Line 12182 - Query word study

inventions, which I would have given my life to save? Where is Trace,
    Line 12183 - Query word inventions

the trusted son of my comrade, whom I loved better than myself? His
    Line 12184 - Query word loved

mutilated body is in that graveyard! He died in destroying my all! If
    Line 12185 - Query word graveyard

mutilated body is in that graveyard! He died in destroying my all! If
    Line 12185 - Query word destroying

I could forget! If I only could! 'The waters are come in unto my
    Line 12186 - Query word waters

seated. "'The Lord will not cast off forever,'" she said, "'but,
    Line 12192 - Query word Lord

seated. "'The Lord will not cast off forever,'" she said, "'but,
    Line 12192 - Query word cast

though he cause grief yet will he have compassion, according to the
    Line 12193 - Query word grief

I could meet annihilation firmly. This old body I can bring to the
    Line 12201 - Query word firmly

grave, but I cannot touch the after life. No. I must keep this
    Line 12202 - Query word grave

sensation, sensation which gives me no pleasure, only pain, eternal
    Line 12203 - Query word sensation

sensation, sensation which gives me no pleasure, only pain, eternal
    Line 12203 - Query word sensation

sensation, sensation which gives me no pleasure, only pain, eternal
    Line 12203 - Query word gives

sensation, sensation which gives me no pleasure, only pain, eternal
    Line 12203 - Query word pleasure

pain, I am like an old harp which was once an instrument of melody,
    Line 12204 - Query word melody

but which now yields the harshest of sounds. Mirth, pleasure, rest,
    Line 12205 - Query word sounds

but which now yields the harshest of sounds. Mirth, pleasure, rest,
    Line 12205 - Query word pleasure

they are for me neither now nor in eternity!"
    Line 12206 - Query word eternity

"You have no reason to be so hopeless," said Manie. "God has promised
    Line 12208 - Query word hopeless

"'He hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted,
    Line 12212 - Query word despised

"'He hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted,
    Line 12212 - Query word afflicted

"What have I rendered unto Him in my prosperity," said Ratke, "that
    Line 12216 - Query word rendered

He should help me now? I never openly acknowledged Him. When wealth
    Line 12217 - Query word openly

He should help me now? I never openly acknowledged Him. When wealth
    Line 12217 - Query word acknowledged

and friends were mine, I depended on my own resources with little
    Line 12218 - Query word friends

and friends were mine, I depended on my own resources with little
    Line 12218 - Query word depended

solicitude for God's assistance. I said, 'I will get wisdom;' and
    Line 12219 - Query word God's

me between the straights, he has left me to be extricated by my
    Line 12221 - Query word extricated

"You have fulfilled part of the Lord's requirements," said Manie.
    Line 12224 - Query word fulfilled

"'Is not this the fast that I have chosen, to loose the bands of
    Line 12225 - Query word chosen

free, and that ye break every yoke? Is it not to deal thy bread to
    Line 12227 - Query word free

free, and that ye break every yoke? Is it not to deal thy bread to
    Line 12227 - Query word thy

the hungry, and that thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy
    Line 12228 - Query word cast

the hungry, and that thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy
    Line 12228 - Query word thy

house, when thou seest the naked that thou cover him?'"
    Line 12229 - Query word naked

house, when thou seest the naked that thou cover him?'"
    Line 12229 - Query word cover

not pitied.' 'He hath made me desolate and faint all the day.' I
    Line 12233 - Query word faint

"You will feel better to-morrow," said Manie. "When I am teaching
    Line 12237 - Query word morrow

and how much comfort we will take, reading our books and studying
    Line 12239 - Query word studying

and you can work at your inventions as you used to do."
    Line 12241 - Query word inventions

lose one's entire possessions, to see perishing what one prizes more
    Line 12244 - Query word entire

shivered in succession, and the ruins heaped in ashes on one's head?
    Line 12246 - Query word succession

shivered in succession, and the ruins heaped in ashes on one's head?
    Line 12246 - Query word ashes

My neighbors who have given me financial help laugh at me. They sneer
    Line 12247 - Query word financial

at my Jerusalem wagon and crack jokes about my one-man saw. I cannot
    Line 12248 - Query word jokes

endure it. I shall die or go insane. 'The pains of hell have got hold
    Line 12249 - Query word endure

of death prevented me. In my distress I called on the Lord and my cry
    Line 12253 - Query word prevented

of death prevented me. In my distress I called on the Lord and my cry
    Line 12253 - Query word Lord

came before him, even unto his ears.'"
    Line 12254 - Query word ears

"My sighs are many, and my heart is faint," said the major. "There is
    Line 12256 - Query word sighs

"My sighs are many, and my heart is faint," said the major. "There is
    Line 12256 - Query word faint

anguish in reflection. Lure me into forgetfulness by song, Manie."
    Line 12257 - Query word Lure

seated herself by Ratke, who had ceased his violent pacing of the
    Line 12264 - Query word herself

seated herself by Ratke, who had ceased his violent pacing of the
    Line 12264 - Query word ceased

floor. The scene through which she had passed put a tremulous pathos
    Line 12265 - Query word pathos

"A minstrel sang often Euterpa's gay song
    Line 12268 - Query word sang

Where the floor of the hall 'neath a great courtly throng
    Line 12270 - Query word hall

Sweet notes which were welcomed, applauded and famed
    Line 12272 - Query word welcomed

Sweet notes which were welcomed, applauded and famed
    Line 12272 - Query word famed

Their melody all except pleasure disclaimed;
    Line 12274 - Query word melody

Their melody all except pleasure disclaimed;
    Line 12274 - Query word pleasure

It mixed with the revel where mirth was untamed,
    Line 12275 - Query word revel

    But it touched not a comfortless heart.
    Line 12276 - Query word touched

'Hits fame and his fortune all perished away.
    Line 12278 - Query word fortune

    Those who in his prosperous days
    Line 12279 - Query word prosperous

He thought of his laurels, whose life was so brief,
    Line 12282 - Query word brief

    In his gloomy and utter despair
    Line 12283 - Query word gloomy

    In his gloomy and utter despair
    Line 12283 - Query word utter

'My burden,' he faltered, in accents of grief,
    Line 12285 - Query word burden

'My burden,' he faltered, in accents of grief,
    Line 12285 - Query word grief

"He bowed low his head and he threw down his lyre
    Line 12288 - Query word bowed

    In a hall where its music had rung.
    Line 12289 - Query word hall

Oh, deep was the anguish that swept o'er him then
    Line 12292 - Query word swept

    When no solace his broken heart propped;
    Line 12293 - Query word solace

He mused on his trouble, remote from all men;
    Line 12294 - Query word remote

"Out on the wide world the sad measure was borne,
    Line 12298 - Query word wide

    And the healing of pain was its goal.
    Line 12299 - Query word healing

    It raised many a low-smitten soul.
    Line 12301 - Query word smitten

Then woe left its sack-cloth forgotten and smiled;
    Line 12302 - Query word woe

Then woe left its sack-cloth forgotten and smiled;
    Line 12302 - Query word smiled

    The transgressor bent on his knee;
    Line 12303 - Query word knee

And men from the shades of their crimes were beguiled;
    Line 12304 - Query word shades

'Lord, now it is plain,' said the minstrel, a child;
    Line 12305 - Query word 'Lord

knee and comb my hair. Let me think that these are the
    Line 12309 - Query word knee

my place, that I still have hope for my inventions. Oh,
    Line 12311 - Query word inventions

this is luxury! What a soothing power there is in the
    Line 12312 - Query word luxury

this is luxury! What a soothing power there is in the
    Line 12312 - Query word soothing

Manie, who was crying under cover of the darkness, tenderly combed
    Line 12315 - Query word cover

Manie, who was crying under cover of the darkness, tenderly combed
    Line 12315 - Query word darkness

CHAPTER XXXII.
    Line 12319 - Query word XXXII

LIBER SEXTUS.
    Line 12320 - Query word LIBER

LIBER SEXTUS.
    Line 12320 - Query word SEXTUS

could find for the words no logical connection with any present
    Line 12323 - Query word connection

event. An inquiry in the nine-teeth century concerning an individual
    Line 12324 - Query word event

event. An inquiry in the nine-teeth century concerning an individual
    Line 12324 - Query word inquiry

supposition seemed the more likely, for a practicing declaimer would
    Line 12329 - Query word likely

house who was complaining bitterly of some grievance. "I tell you I
    Line 12333 - Query word bitterly

letting them know they ain't welcome. This is my house, or as good as
    Line 12335 - Query word welcome

my house, and you needn't say a word more about it."
    Line 12336 - Query word needn't

John began to feel positive alarm. He mistrusted that Durgenson had
    Line 12338 - Query word positive

he could demonstrate his sanity, when he would at once be set free.
    Line 12341 - Query word free

and the blinds. There was probably no way of descent to the ground,
    Line 12352 - Query word descent

disagreeable consequences, whether he were in the hands of friends or
    Line 12355 - Query word disagreeable

disagreeable consequences, whether he were in the hands of friends or
    Line 12355 - Query word consequences

disagreeable consequences, whether he were in the hands of friends or
    Line 12355 - Query word friends

of enemies. Notwithstanding its disadvantages he would in all
    Line 12356 - Query word enemies

of enemies. Notwithstanding its disadvantages he would in all
    Line 12356 - Query word Notwithstanding

clung to the hope of realizing some benefit from his visit. Panicky
    Line 12358 - Query word clung

had told him he could not afford to stay away from this place for all
    Line 12359 - Query word afford

were a convict, I wish to know what I have done to merit such
    Line 12370 - Query word merit

done, I have done for your good. You will acknowledge it to-morrow.
    Line 12374 - Query word acknowledge

done, I have done for your good. You will acknowledge it to-morrow.
    Line 12374 - Query word morrow

Do as I tell you, and I will soon explain everything to your
    Line 12375 - Query word explain

This speech, though it silenced John and partly quieted his
    Line 12378 - Query word silenced

This speech, though it silenced John and partly quieted his
    Line 12378 - Query word quieted

which she requested John to enter. After placing the lamp on the desk
    Line 12382 - Query word requested

in a library which faced the street, and had closely-packed shelves
    Line 12389 - Query word library

in a library which faced the street, and had closely-packed shelves
    Line 12389 - Query word street

on three of its walls. The room was plainly, almost shabbily
    Line 12390 - Query word walls

furnished, but the books were arranged with method. One set of
    Line 12391 - Query word arranged

were included in the second, poetry and light literature. In the
    Line 12394 - Query word poetry

modern than that in the book underneath it. The bottom shelves of the
    Line 12397 - Query word modern

order, were religious, philosophical and political treatises and
    Line 12400 - Query word philosophical

order, were religious, philosophical and political treatises and
    Line 12400 - Query word political

various odd and antiquated dissertations. The legal and political
    Line 12401 - Query word political

department. The imaginative literature, alone, of all the library,
    Line 12404 - Query word library

was as if the library had been once arranged by a careful student,
    Line 12407 - Query word library

was as if the library had been once arranged by a careful student,
    Line 12407 - Query word arranged

was as if the library had been once arranged by a careful student,
    Line 12407 - Query word student

and afterward abandoned to some slovenly, trivial-minded person, who
    Line 12408 - Query word person

had left the solid part undisturbed. The one wall which did not
    Line 12409 - Query word undisturbed

were mostly political articles or items concerning distinguished men.
    Line 12411 - Query word mostly

were mostly political articles or items concerning distinguished men.
    Line 12411 - Query word political

were mostly political articles or items concerning distinguished men.
    Line 12411 - Query word items

that some person was near him.
    Line 12417 - Query word person

"I have been abused. That woman has a fashion of locking the door
    Line 12425 - Query word fashion

every time she leaves me. I will not endure it much longer. You must
    Line 12426 - Query word endure

up directly."
    Line 12437 - Query word directly

As footsteps in an adjoining room drew near, Durgenson quickly
    Line 12439 - Query word adjoining

"Why, Mrs Boyle!" cried John, shaking the hand of the newcomer. "You
    Line 12444 - Query word Boyle

Mrs. Boyle's companion. "He thought I meant to do him some harm."
    Line 12448 - Query word Boyle's

"Afraid of Mrs. Baldwin?" said Mrs. Boyle. "You needn't be, John. Do
    Line 12450 - Query word Boyle

"Afraid of Mrs. Baldwin?" said Mrs. Boyle. "You needn't be, John. Do
    Line 12450 - Query word needn't

whatever she tells you to don't be afraid of the consequences."
    Line 12451 - Query word tells

whatever she tells you to don't be afraid of the consequences."
    Line 12451 - Query word consequences

advantage with he wished to tell me. He instructed me to go to No.
    Line 12460 - Query word instructed

109---- Street, where we would hold a consultation."
    Line 12461 - Query word Street

"He wanted to get you away," said Mrs. Baldwin. "I know his tricks.
    Line 12463 - Query word tricks

That is why I locked the door when I left you."
    Line 12464 - Query word locked

"Will you tell me one thing," asked John, "what is the meaning of
    Line 12466 - Query word meaning

"In good time," answered Mrs. Baldwin. "Before I explain much to you,
    Line 12469 - Query word explain

you must answer some questions. Where were you brought up?"
    Line 12470 - Query word questions

"We have made careful inquiries about you," said Mrs. Baldwin, "and
    Line 12476 - Query word inquiries

bare your foot? Which one, Mrs. Boyle?"
    Line 12478 - Query word Boyle

"That one," said Mrs. Boyle, pointing to the left one.
    Line 12480 - Query word Boyle

"That one," said Mrs. Boyle, pointing to the left one.
    Line 12480 - Query word pointing

"It is very sore," returned John. "I have had a surgical operation
    Line 12482 - Query word sore

you have lost the most honorable birth-mark there is in Michigan?
    Line 12491 - Query word birth

What are we to do, now that the proof of your descent is gone? You
    Line 12492 - Query word proof

What are we to do, now that the proof of your descent is gone? You
    Line 12492 - Query word descent

saw it, though, Mrs. Boyle?"
    Line 12493 - Query word Boyle

"Yes," said Mrs. Boyle. "I will swear to that."
    Line 12495 - Query word Boyle

said Mrs. Baldwin, as John was replacing the bandages on his foot.
    Line 12501 - Query word replacing

"Is he dead?" asked John excitedly.
    Line 12504 - Query word excitedly

out that the young gentleman who wished to marry his daughter, was
    Line 12510 - Query word gentleman

out that the young gentleman who wished to marry his daughter, was
    Line 12510 - Query word marry

married Mr. Lehmann. Your grandfather was, of course, very indignant,
    Line 12513 - Query word indignant

Your father, who was talented and highly educated gave music lessons.
    Line 12515 - Query word highly

Your father, who was talented and highly educated gave music lessons.
    Line 12515 - Query word lessons

They claim he had real musical genius. A concert which he gave won
    Line 12516 - Query word musical

play. Both of them were killed in the accident which happened to the
    Line 12519 - Query word accident

train. Not much notice was taken of your father's death at the time,
    Line 12520 - Query word train

but six months afterward some of his compositions became famous.
    Line 12521 - Query word months

but six months afterward some of his compositions became famous.
    Line 12521 - Query word famous

People from all parts of the country visit his grave to pay tribute
    Line 12522 - Query word parts

People from all parts of the country visit his grave to pay tribute
    Line 12522 - Query word grave

People from all parts of the country visit his grave to pay tribute
    Line 12522 - Query word tribute

to his memory. If you are familiar with the history of music, you
    Line 12523 - Query word memory

to his memory. If you are familiar with the history of music, you
    Line 12523 - Query word familiar

"Yes," said John, "I have played my father's marches and felt my soul
    Line 12526 - Query word played

was left during their absence with Mrs. Boyle, who kept with her
    Line 12531 - Query word Boyle

another boy name Wrengell. After the accident Mr. Durgenson, who
    Line 12532 - Query word accident

married your mother's cousin, came to Mrs. Boyle and saying that he
    Line 12533 - Query word Boyle

and Mr. Lehmann had been friends, offered to care for you, but he did
    Line 12534 - Query word friends

not state that you were relatives. Mrs. Boyle had become attached to
    Line 12535 - Query word relatives

not state that you were relatives. Mrs. Boyle had become attached to
    Line 12535 - Query word Boyle

you, and she declined to let you go. She said Mr Lehmann had left you
    Line 12536 - Query word declined

was older than you, had been playing in the kitchen and running out
    Line 12539 - Query word older

doors, Mr. Boyle missed you. She asked the boy where you were, and he
    Line 12540 - Query word Boyle

doors, Mr. Boyle missed you. She asked the boy where you were, and he
    Line 12540 - Query word missed

told her that you had gone out doors. Thinking it queer that you, a
    Line 12541 - Query word queer

find you. A man named Dabney had been sawing wood in a yard close
    Line 12545 - Query word Dabney

coaxed you to him and given you some candy. Mrs Boyle visited his
    Line 12551 - Query word Boyle

played on your violin, she was almost certain of your identity.
    Line 12559 - Query word played

Remembering how Mr. Durgenson had tried to get possession of you
    Line 12560 - Query word Remembering

Remembering how Mr. Durgenson had tried to get possession of you
    Line 12560 - Query word tried

"Your grandfather met with an accident in Jackson County, when the
    Line 12565 - Query word accident

Mrs. Boyle, hearing it, wrote to us what she knew about the affair. I
    Line 12567 - Query word Boyle

Mrs. Boyle, hearing it, wrote to us what she knew about the affair. I
    Line 12567 - Query word wrote

got a lawyer to interview Dabney. The lawyer frightened him into
    Line 12568 - Query word interview

got a lawyer to interview Dabney. The lawyer frightened him into
    Line 12568 - Query word Dabney

telling that it was he who took you from Mrs. Boyle. He says Mr.
    Line 12569 - Query word Boyle

was in sore need of money, and he did take you to his brother's house
    Line 12571 - Query word sore

hunt you up. In a little while Dabney, who was careful that you
    Line 12575 - Query word Dabney

of the boy who was living with Mrs. Boyle. That is the way you came
    Line 12577 - Query word Boyle

ashamed is the history of Alf, the fellow who was with Mrs. Boyle. I
    Line 12581 - Query word Boyle

at Ann Arbor, with his sand-colored coat, his wicked mouth and his
    Line 12584 - Query word colored

criminal face was not his relative.
    Line 12585 - Query word criminal

"We told Dabney," said Mrs. Baldwin, "that if he would find you and
    Line 12587 - Query word Dabney

besides. He was glad to repair the mischief he had accomplished. He
    Line 12589 - Query word mischief

besides. He was glad to repair the mischief he had accomplished. He
    Line 12589 - Query word accomplished

furnished. Mrs. Baldwin pointed to a frame, which enclosed the stern,
    Line 12599 - Query word stern

intellectual face of Senator Mallard. John felt his legs tremble and
    Line 12600 - Query word intellectual

intellectual face of Senator Mallard. John felt his legs tremble and
    Line 12600 - Query word Mallard

covered his face with his hands, while the tears trickled through his
    Line 12602 - Query word tears

were they now? Of his wealth he knew nothing and cared little, but
    Line 12604 - Query word cared

his lineage was proud enough to satisfy even his ambition.
    Line 12605 - Query word lineage

his lineage was proud enough to satisfy even his ambition.
    Line 12605 - Query word ambition

buggy in Jackson County, and he cannot recover. His reason is gone."
    Line 12611 - Query word recover

by thy lofty stature, thy blue eyes and light hair."
    Line 12621 - Query word thy

by thy lofty stature, thy blue eyes and light hair."
    Line 12621 - Query word stature

by thy lofty stature, thy blue eyes and light hair."
    Line 12621 - Query word thy

Varus cannot restore to thee thy legions."
    Line 12631 - Query word thy

"He's awful crazy," whispered Durgenson to John.
    Line 12633 - Query word crazy

"Roman," cried Mallard, with astonishing force for one in his
    Line 12635 - Query word Mallard

"Suebian," said Mallard, "I have the key to the past For years I
    Line 12643 - Query word Mallard

"Suebian," said Mallard, "I have the key to the past For years I
    Line 12643 - Query word past

tried in vain to master its secrets. Now they come to me without any
    Line 12644 - Query word tried

tried in vain to master its secrets. Now they come to me without any
    Line 12644 - Query word vain

Suebi, incidents to which historians have never referred."
    Line 12648 - Query word incidents

When John's music had ceased, Mallard said, "I hear Orpheus playing
    Line 12653 - Query word ceased

When John's music had ceased, Mallard said, "I hear Orpheus playing
    Line 12653 - Query word Mallard

on his golden harp to win Eurydice from the king of the dead.
    Line 12654 - Query word win

far. That strain never floated in the land of the dead or over the
    Line 12657 - Query word floated

"The rigor of thy clime hath saddened thee," said the old man at the
    Line 12660 - Query word thy

north wind, lying flat on his face and piling mountains of ice on thy
    Line 12662 - Query word mountains

north wind, lying flat on his face and piling mountains of ice on thy
    Line 12662 - Query word thy

desolate islands and across the mouths of thy slow rivers. Thou
    Line 12663 - Query word islands

desolate islands and across the mouths of thy slow rivers. Thou
    Line 12663 - Query word thy

desolate islands and across the mouths of thy slow rivers. Thou
    Line 12663 - Query word slow

By Mrs. Baldwin's direction John again took his bow and played.
    Line 12666 - Query word played

"Strange things are in thy forest of Bacinis," said Mallard. "In thy
    Line 12668 - Query word thy

"Strange things are in thy forest of Bacinis," said Mallard. "In thy
    Line 12668 - Query word Mallard

"Strange things are in thy forest of Bacinis," said Mallard. "In thy
    Line 12668 - Query word thy

it up to the gaze of men, and, when I reached out my hand for it, it
    Line 12672 - Query word gaze

"No," said Mallard sadly. "I fear I may not get it. It is not of
    Line 12678 - Query word Mallard

bed, for I smell them."
    Line 12681 - Query word smell

"Stop," commanded Mallard, "Do not hurt them. They have all gone.
    Line 12693 - Query word Mallard

Suebian, come nearer. I will tell thy fortune."
    Line 12694 - Query word thy

Suebian, come nearer. I will tell thy fortune."
    Line 12694 - Query word fortune

"No," said Mallard. "Bunglers tell fortunes by the hand. I tell them
    Line 12698 - Query word Mallard

The Senator stirred around uneasily, getting the quilt which was over
    Line 12701 - Query word stirred

him partly displaced, when it became apparent that he had twelve
    Line 12702 - Query word apparent

him partly displaced, when it became apparent that he had twelve
    Line 12702 - Query word twelve

"Here are the archives of the past and the indices of the future,"
    Line 12709 - Query word past

said the statesman. "Six toes, and every toe a book. Here are Liber
    Line 12710 - Query word Liber

Primus, Liber Secundus, Liber Tertius, Liber Quartus, Liber Quintus,
    Line 12711 - Query word Liber

Primus, Liber Secundus, Liber Tertius, Liber Quartus, Liber Quintus,
    Line 12711 - Query word Liber

Primus, Liber Secundus, Liber Tertius, Liber Quartus, Liber Quintus,
    Line 12711 - Query word Liber

Primus, Liber Secundus, Liber Tertius, Liber Quartus, Liber Quintus,
    Line 12711 - Query word Liber

and, what is this? Liber Sextos is gone; dids't thou willingly part
    Line 12712 - Query word Liber

"I would I had it back," said John earnestly.
    Line 12715 - Query word earnestly

"Liber Sextus is a grand book," said Mallard, "it tells the story of
    Line 12717 - Query word Liber

"Liber Sextus is a grand book," said Mallard, "it tells the story of
    Line 12717 - Query word Sextus

"Liber Sextus is a grand book," said Mallard, "it tells the story of
    Line 12717 - Query word grand

"Liber Sextus is a grand book," said Mallard, "it tells the story of
    Line 12717 - Query word Mallard

"Liber Sextus is a grand book," said Mallard, "it tells the story of
    Line 12717 - Query word tells

absent as well as when it is present. The Roman will contend against
    Line 12719 - Query word absent

absent as well as when it is present. The Roman will contend against
    Line 12719 - Query word contend

If my head would only keep stationary, I could decipher all; but just
    Line 12721 - Query word stationary

as I am introduced to an epoch, it whirls again, and events fly out
    Line 12722 - Query word introduced

as I am introduced to an epoch, it whirls again, and events fly out
    Line 12722 - Query word epoch

"Farewell, Suebian," said Mallard, when he saw them leaving his
    Line 12728 - Query word Mallard

"Do you have watchers for him nights?" asked John as he, Mrs. Baldwin
    Line 12731 - Query word nights

and Mrs. Boyle were in the room which contained the large picture of
    Line 12732 - Query word Boyle

glimmering lights of the wakeful city, which at the horizon appeared
    Line 12744 - Query word lights

to join the star-dotted spread of the heavens. His happiness had come
    Line 12745 - Query word happiness

in a deluge, which he was ill-fitted quietly to withstand. There was
    Line 12746 - Query word fitted

no obstacle to his union with Manie. None could sneer at the
    Line 12747 - Query word obstacle

no obstacle to his union with Manie. None could sneer at the
    Line 12747 - Query word union

parentage of Martin Lehmann's son and Senator Mallard's grandson. He
    Line 12748 - Query word Mallard's

parentage of Martin Lehmann's son and Senator Mallard's grandson. He
    Line 12748 - Query word grandson

undressed and went to bed, but the exuberance of his spirits forbade
    Line 12749 - Query word spirits

rise. Finally, however, it grew too strong to be suppressed, when he
    Line 12751 - Query word rise

rise. Finally, however, it grew too strong to be suppressed, when he
    Line 12751 - Query word Finally

rise. Finally, however, it grew too strong to be suppressed, when he
    Line 12751 - Query word grew

sprang up and put on his clothes. Few lights were now visible in the
    Line 12752 - Query word lights

He softly descended the stairs to take a look at his grandfather,
    Line 12756 - Query word descended

bedroom door, which was ajar, he peered inside. Mallard's white face
    Line 12758 - Query word peered

bedroom door, which was ajar, he peered inside. Mallard's white face
    Line 12758 - Query word Mallard's

was turned toward him, the eyes were closed, the lips were parted as
    Line 12759 - Query word parted

CHAPTER XXXIII.
    Line 12764 - Query word XXXIII

Of the obsequies of Senator Mallard it is necessary to say little.
    Line 12767 - Query word Mallard

They were conducted with imposing ceremonies and attended by many of
    Line 12768 - Query word attended

After the funeral Mrs. Boyle returned to her home. The question of
    Line 12771 - Query word funeral

After the funeral Mrs. Boyle returned to her home. The question of
    Line 12771 - Query word Boyle

wife, who, as has been stated, was Mallard's niece, would not
    Line 12773 - Query word Mallard's

recognize John's right to the property. She and her husband lived in
    Line 12774 - Query word husband

ever since you were born. That night when you were at Mrs. Boyle's, I
    Line 12779 - Query word born

ever since you were born. That night when you were at Mrs. Boyle's, I
    Line 12779 - Query word Boyle's

"By putting poison in the water we drink, or in our food," replied
    Line 12785 - Query word drink

"By putting poison in the water we drink, or in our food," replied
    Line 12785 - Query word food

treacherous. You remember how he tried to get you away from us. I
    Line 12788 - Query word tried

haven't the least doubt that he meant to lure you to some
    Line 12789 - Query word lure

commenced it the day of the funeral."
    Line 12812 - Query word funeral

You could throw that Wrengell out, couldn't you?"
    Line 12829 - Query word throw

"Why, yes," replied Durgenson. "As to that, I could throw him out.
    Line 12831 - Query word throw

I'd risk that, but there'd be an after-clap. He'd have be arrested
    Line 12832 - Query word He'd

I'd risk that, but there'd be an after-clap. He'd have be arrested
    Line 12832 - Query word arrested

when the servant reappeared.
    Line 12842 - Query word reappeared

Durgenson family. They will be robbing us of our cook-stove and our
    Line 12856 - Query word cook

Durgenson family. They will be robbing us of our cook-stove and our
    Line 12856 - Query word stove

looking after the property they expected to get. George was not in
    Line 12861 - Query word George

done. George did not fancy them, but, if he expressed an opinion, who
    Line 12864 - Query word George

They were not offensive at first, and, indeed Mr. Durgenson has not
    Line 12866 - Query word offensive

been so any of the time. But, as soon as George died, Mrs. Durgenson
    Line 12867 - Query word George

and she, being his only niece, has always considered herself his
    Line 12869 - Query word herself

heir. You can hardly imagine how much your appearance has
    Line 12870 - Query word heir

heir. You can hardly imagine how much your appearance has
    Line 12870 - Query word imagine

kindred and in poverty, my grand-nephew is restored to me, and, I
    Line 12872 - Query word grand

kindred and in poverty, my grand-nephew is restored to me, and, I
    Line 12872 - Query word nephew

trust, will be to his rights."
    Line 12873 - Query word rights

carpet upstairs is gone, and somebody's took every wash-bowl and
    Line 12876 - Query word carpet

carpet upstairs is gone, and somebody's took every wash-bowl and
    Line 12876 - Query word wash

When he inquired for Durgenson, the wife of that gentleman informed
    Line 12883 - Query word gentleman

When he inquired for Durgenson, the wife of that gentleman informed
    Line 12883 - Query word informed

him that her husband had gone uptown.
    Line 12884 - Query word husband

"I can't tell anything about it," replied Mrs. Durgenson, rolling her
    Line 12888 - Query word rolling

The red-headed servant-girl, who was sweeping, rolled a cloud of dust
    Line 12892 - Query word headed

countenance expressed approval of the act. John shifted his position
    Line 12894 - Query word approval

suppressing a giggle, sent the dirt flying about him in profusion.
    Line 12901 - Query word suppressing

suppressing a giggle, sent the dirt flying about him in profusion.
    Line 12901 - Query word giggle

"Oblige me by telling Mr. Durgenson of my visit," he said, "and
    Line 12905 - Query word Oblige

which she energetically directed for John's inhalation.
    Line 12912 - Query word energetically

when John had gone a few steps, burst into loud laughter.
    Line 12917 - Query word laughter

"The idea," said Mrs. Durgenson, purposely elevating her tone so that
    Line 12919 - Query word idea

it could be heard by her late visitor, "of a man of his birth telling
    Line 12920 - Query word birth

servant-girls, and by them less repressed than by their employers.
    Line 12924 - Query word girls

servant-girls, and by them less repressed than by their employers.
    Line 12924 - Query word repressed

Usually servants have the human aversion to doing unnecessary work,
    Line 12925 - Query word unnecessary

but in this case the general rule was inapplicable. Both Julia and
    Line 12926 - Query word rule

share of the house as possible. The south parlor, the hall and the
    Line 12928 - Query word hall

library were the most frequent occasions of rivalry. At the beginning
    Line 12929 - Query word library

library were the most frequent occasions of rivalry. At the beginning
    Line 12929 - Query word frequent

library were the most frequent occasions of rivalry. At the beginning
    Line 12929 - Query word occasions

stimulated each hurriedly to wash the morning dishes in order first
    Line 12932 - Query word wash

Ellen, resolved not to be beaten, swept the room before another
    Line 12936 - Query word beaten

Ellen, resolved not to be beaten, swept the room before another
    Line 12936 - Query word swept

individual in the house was astir. Slurs, innuendoes and directly
    Line 12937 - Query word astir

individual in the house was astir. Slurs, innuendoes and directly
    Line 12937 - Query word directly

personal remarks began to be used frequently by both parties.
    Line 12938 - Query word frequently

personal remarks began to be used frequently by both parties.
    Line 12938 - Query word parties

quarrel. The encroachments on the rights of John and Mrs. Baldwin by
    Line 12942 - Query word rights

Ellen's kitchen and helped herself to a panful of flour, saying that
    Line 12945 - Query word helped

Ellen's kitchen and helped herself to a panful of flour, saying that
    Line 12945 - Query word herself

the Durgenson supply was exhausted and she had as much right to this
    Line 12946 - Query word exhausted

away the entire stock of pear preserves, for Mrs. Durgenson liked
    Line 12948 - Query word entire

dig them out. The chamber in the wing which Mrs. Baldwin had reserved
    Line 12952 - Query word dig

dig them out. The chamber in the wing which Mrs. Baldwin had reserved
    Line 12952 - Query word reserved

for the use of herself and John was steadily stripped of its
    Line 12953 - Query word herself

for the use of herself and John was steadily stripped of its
    Line 12953 - Query word stripped

belongings. Fruit cans, dishes, bedding and pictures disappeared,
    Line 12954 - Query word bedding

belongings. Fruit cans, dishes, bedding and pictures disappeared,
    Line 12954 - Query word pictures

some secretly, some openly, into the rooms allotted to the
    Line 12955 - Query word openly

Durgensons. The crisis came when Julia called after a kettle which
    Line 12956 - Query word crisis

the big kettle I use don't fit on the stove good." "You're a-getting
    Line 12960 - Query word stove

everything," said Ellen. "Don't you want the stove and my table?"
    Line 12961 - Query word stove

I shan't use the stove, because mine is better. You'll have to be
    Line 12963 - Query word stove

shan't," screamed Ellen, grasping the kettle and putting it behind
    Line 12965 - Query word grasping

nobody. He stole a horse and got chased out of Break o'Day. He come
    Line 12972 - Query word chased

nor the likes of you, you great freckled thing. You've stole
    Line 12976 - Query word freckled

have it. I ain't got a big kettle that fits my cook-stove."
    Line 12987 - Query word cook

have it. I ain't got a big kettle that fits my cook-stove."
    Line 12987 - Query word stove

"Get out of this kitchen, or I will have you arrested," said John,
    Line 12994 - Query word arrested

guess I'm as respectable as the Wrengells. There never was a decent
    Line 12999 - Query word decent

one amongst you. I've heard all about your tribe, you son of a thief.
    Line 13000 - Query word tribe

than to the women. They always get the advantage of me." As he was
    Line 13004 - Query word women

passing the library in pursuance of his intention, he heard steps
    Line 13005 - Query word library

act of tearing off the scraps which Mallard had pasted on the walls.
    Line 13007 - Query word tearing

act of tearing off the scraps which Mallard had pasted on the walls.
    Line 13007 - Query word Mallard

act of tearing off the scraps which Mallard had pasted on the walls.
    Line 13007 - Query word walls

These clippings, which were very valuable to political and
    Line 13008 - Query word political

arranged by his grandfather's hand. Such a desecration of his
    Line 13010 - Query word arranged

venerated ancestors memory filled John with indignation, and he was
    Line 13011 - Query word memory

she tore from the wall a strip of paper, which fell to the floor.
    Line 13020 - Query word tore

"You'll get yourself into trouble," said the angry woman, sobbing
    Line 13024 - Query word angry

"Tell him to come now," said John. "I will wait here in the library
    Line 13028 - Query word library

"Oh, Durgenson," wailed the wife, as she came into the presence of
    Line 13031 - Query word wailed

her husband, "I've been insulted in my own house."
    Line 13032 - Query word husband

"Who's been insulting you?" asked Durgenson.
    Line 13034 - Query word Who's

sobs. "The library looks awful with those dirty papers on. I wanted
    Line 13037 - Query word library

to tear 'em off and fix it decent. He--he wouldn't let me. Oh,
    Line 13038 - Query word fix

to tear 'em off and fix it decent. He--he wouldn't let me. Oh,
    Line 13038 - Query word decent

in there tearing off the paper, and in the next place, when he told
    Line 13044 - Query word tearing

take up sides with him."
    Line 13048 - Query word sides

"Pshaw, now," said Durgenson, "if he had really insulted you, I would
    Line 13050 - Query word really

what a low descent! We know the pedigree of the Wrengells."
    Line 13060 - Query word descent

"I'll admit all that," said Durgenson, lowering his voice, "but come
    Line 13062 - Query word admit

here, Maggie. This is confidential, you know. It mustn't be lisped,
    Line 13063 - Query word mustn't

to back his claim. No matter if it's false, it will count all the
    Line 13066 - Query word false

didn't want your Uncle George to die. He did, though, and we wouldn't
    Line 13081 - Query word George

quarrel with him, not stir him up to push his claim very fast."
    Line 13084 - Query word stir

"He said he wanted to see you in the library," said Mrs. Durgenson.
    Line 13086 - Query word library

"I'd better go, too," said Durgenson. "I'll smooth matters over. And,
    Line 13088 - Query word smooth

part. She'll be scratching her eyes out the next thing we hear."
    Line 13090 - Query word She'll

well-trimmed beard with what seemed the essence of good-nature, "What
    Line 13096 - Query word trimmed

women, you know, have got to sputter around and quarrel anyway. We
    Line 13106 - Query word women

hadn't ought to mind them. You and I can't afford to have a falling
    Line 13107 - Query word afford

out just because the women don't agree."
    Line 13108 - Query word women

"That talk sounds very well," replied John, "It does not, however,
    Line 13110 - Query word sounds

"What have you missed?" inquired Durgenson.
    Line 13113 - Query word missed

"But I shan't be satisfied," said Durgenson. "Make out a list of what
    Line 13118 - Query word list

"I will take no pay for them," said John, ashamed that he had spoken
    Line 13121 - Query word spoken

rooms? You know what women folks are. It may bother me to keep them
    Line 13127 - Query word women

"Those are the ones," said John. "Keep those which belong to your
    Line 13137 - Query word belong

so that it may make us a good deal of trouble. That Dabney would
    Line 13143 - Query word Dabney

swear to a lie as quick as he'd yarn it about his salves and dopes.
    Line 13144 - Query word he'd

honorable lineage acknowledged than to possess all the real estate in
    Line 13148 - Query word lineage

honorable lineage acknowledged than to possess all the real estate in
    Line 13148 - Query word acknowledged

Lansing without the respectable lineage. If I sell out, it will look
    Line 13149 - Query word lineage

would be apt to eat a hole in what Uncle George earned."
    Line 13153 - Query word George

"That is pretty small," said Durgenson, "considering the amount of
    Line 13158 - Query word pretty

"That is pretty small," said Durgenson, "considering the amount of
    Line 13158 - Query word considering

hall when he heard a strange voice saying in the adjacent parlor,
    Line 13163 - Query word hall

"Oh, Durgenson," wailed the wife, "you're going to leave your Maggie!
    Line 13168 - Query word wailed

when he tried to stop them from taking his horse. I'm not responsible
    Line 13173 - Query word tried

The reader, if he chooses, may peruse the whispered consultation,
    Line 13180 - Query word reader

"Maggie," said Durgenson, "Lehmann has got us foul. He'll have this
    Line 13183 - Query word foul

"No," said Durgenson; "if we do, some disagreeable things will be
    Line 13191 - Query word disagreeable

the train. Get on your hat now."
    Line 13203 - Query word train

"Oh, don't take him! Don't take my Hiram!" pleaded Mrs. Durgenson,
    Line 13205 - Query word Hiram

throwing her arms about her husband. "I can't live without him."
    Line 13206 - Query word husband

With many tears and apostrophic declarations of love Mrs. Durgenson
    Line 13211 - Query word tears

bade farewell to her husband, who, in apparently good spirits, set
    Line 13212 - Query word husband

bade farewell to her husband, who, in apparently good spirits, set
    Line 13212 - Query word spirits

out for Chicago to face the charge which had been brought against
    Line 13213 - Query word charge

Mrs. Baldwin was rejoiced at the removal of the great danger which,
    Line 13216 - Query word removal

away large quantities of household goods as souvenirs of her Uncle
    Line 13221 - Query word souvenirs

George.
    Line 13222 - Query word George

In a short time John was in undisputed possession of the Mallard
    Line 13224 - Query word Mallard

estate. He longed to hear specific news from the Ratke neighborhood.
    Line 13225 - Query word specific

might be ignorant or forgetful of the recent change in his name.
    Line 13228 - Query word ignorant

might be ignorant or forgetful of the recent change in his name.
    Line 13228 - Query word forgetful

CHAPTER XXXIV.
    Line 13231 - Query word XXXIV

VERDURE RISING FROM THE ASHES.
    Line 13232 - Query word ASHES

shop Ratke relapsed into his accustomed reticence. He was too weak
    Line 13235 - Query word accustomed

cheerfulness which had been once his habitual mood. As he walked
    Line 13242 - Query word cheerfulness

had dyed with red, "In the midst of certain evils," he mused, "the
    Line 13245 - Query word evils

are first touched by the frost of misfortune. Phleet Takum, the
    Line 13247 - Query word touched

are first touched by the frost of misfortune. Phleet Takum, the
    Line 13247 - Query word misfortune

Wallaces and my hired men are all proof against what I have
    Line 13248 - Query word proof

suffered." The reflection, mournful as it was, consoled him greatly,
    Line 13249 - Query word consoled

for it proved that his habit of philosophical thought, which he had
    Line 13250 - Query word philosophical

believed dead, had only slept. He remembered the prospect of which
    Line 13251 - Query word slept

Manie had spoken, that he and she together could pursue the studies
    Line 13252 - Query word spoken

Manie had spoken, that he and she together could pursue the studies
    Line 13252 - Query word studies

which he loved. He felt that his powers were returning to him, and
    Line 13253 - Query word loved

that it would be a delight once more to apply them where Nature had
    Line 13254 - Query word delight

that it would be a delight once more to apply them where Nature had
    Line 13254 - Query word apply

amplified their scope.
    Line 13255 - Query word scope

fortune," said the major.
    Line 13264 - Query word fortune

"I do not care for pleasure now," said the major sadly. "I shall
    Line 13270 - Query word pleasure

never be myself again, John. Bitterness is my portion the remainder
    Line 13271 - Query word Bitterness

major said not a word. He eyed with admiration the New Jerusalem, its
    Line 13284 - Query word eyed

after another, he picked up the wheels and revolved them. A single
    Line 13286 - Query word revolved

He patted alternately the noses of Taylor and Bill. He went back to
    Line 13289 - Query word noses

the wagon, lifted the wheels, examined the irons and returned to the
    Line 13290 - Query word examined

noses of the team. His actions were like those of a small boy who
    Line 13291 - Query word noses

noses of the team. His actions were like those of a small boy who
    Line 13291 - Query word actions

hardly knows on which of several attractions to bestow his notice.
    Line 13292 - Query word attractions

hardly knows on which of several attractions to bestow his notice.
    Line 13292 - Query word bestow

"I beg of you to accept the team and wagon," said John. "I wish to
    Line 13294 - Query word beg

make a slight present to the old friend who gave me the first social
    Line 13295 - Query word social

recognition I ever knew."
    Line 13296 - Query word recognition

The major turned his back to the group and stood silent for a moment.
    Line 13298 - Query word group

Ratke, clambering into the front box, at John's request took the
    Line 13302 - Query word clambering

Ratke, clambering into the front box, at John's request took the
    Line 13302 - Query word request

prevented by her low position from sooner observing the pedestrian.
    Line 13311 - Query word prevented

you? You can't tell who's who when you're ahead of this kind of a
    Line 13316 - Query word who's

did you get the concern?"
    Line 13322 - Query word concern

"Oh, I beg your pardon," stammered Panicky. "It's a blamed nice thing
    Line 13327 - Query word beg

and I know it. Anybody with half an eye can see that. Is your health
    Line 13328 - Query word eye

pretty good, Mrs. Grippin?" he inquired at the end of an embarrassing
    Line 13329 - Query word pretty

pretty good, Mrs. Grippin?" he inquired at the end of an embarrassing
    Line 13329 - Query word embarrassing

"Oh, I wasn't thinking about that," Panicky protested. "It has been a
    Line 13334 - Query word protested

summer-complaint and hay-fever, all running at once. It's, 'Dabney, I
    Line 13337 - Query word complaint

summer-complaint and hay-fever, all running at once. It's, 'Dabney, I
    Line 13337 - Query word 'Dabney

want some panacea,' 'Dabney, give me another bottle of that,'
    Line 13338 - Query word 'Dabney

'Dabney, my family's lost without the panacea.' Yesterday a man that
    Line 13339 - Query word 'Dabney

There was a sound of rapid steps over the hard road which stretched
    Line 13345 - Query word rapid

alongside the New Jerusalem. Without slackening his speed he looked
    Line 13347 - Query word speed

at Ratke, wondering how in his poverty he could again drive his queer
    Line 13348 - Query word queer

triumphantly by.
    Line 13352 - Query word triumphantly

"Charge!" cried the major.
    Line 13354 - Query word Charge

The horses, remembering their education, instantly sprang forward.
    Line 13356 - Query word remembering

The horses, remembering their education, instantly sprang forward.
    Line 13356 - Query word education

Ratke maintained his balance, Mrs. Grippin, Manie and John were
    Line 13357 - Query word balance

thrown to the bottom of the respective boxes which they occupied,
    Line 13358 - Query word boxes

while Panicky was precipitated on his head in a puddle of water, with
    Line 13359 - Query word precipitated

his heels pointing upward and his satchels following him in his
    Line 13360 - Query word pointing

descent. The gray Bill ran as usual, but Taylor after the first jump
    Line 13361 - Query word descent

descent. The gray Bill ran as usual, but Taylor after the first jump
    Line 13361 - Query word gray

nearer the wheel of Sparks's sulky.
    Line 13363 - Query word Sparks's

"By George!" cried the major, in great excitement, rising to his feet
    Line 13365 - Query word George

warrior on a chariot brandishing a spear, "Look at him throw out his
    Line 13367 - Query word throw

by!" he yelled as Madge T., seeing that she was losing ground, raised
    Line 13369 - Query word seeing

by!" he yelled as Madge T., seeing that she was losing ground, raised
    Line 13369 - Query word losing

Ratke was still erect and still swinging his whip. His hat had blown
    Line 13373 - Query word erect

horizontally in the rush of air occasioned by their speed. Madge's
    Line 13375 - Query word speed

horizontally in the rush of air occasioned by their speed. Madge's
    Line 13375 - Query word Madge's

gait, she could not have avoided; and her nose was in a short time
    Line 13377 - Query word nose

"James," screamed Mrs. Grippin, clutching the box, "you act crazy.
    Line 13380 - Query word clutching

"James," screamed Mrs. Grippin, clutching the box, "you act crazy.
    Line 13380 - Query word crazy

Quit your driving so fast!"
    Line 13381 - Query word driving

Mrs. Grippin would be as averse as he to the triumph of Sparks.
    Line 13384 - Query word triumph

"Oh, do just as you want to," replied Mrs. Grippin in a resigned
    Line 13386 - Query word resigned

"Step along there, Taylor!" sang the major with another flourish of
    Line 13389 - Query word sang

his whip. "Get down to it, boy! Steady now."
    Line 13390 - Query word Steady

unsuccessful contestant of the race. Panicky mudded and disconsolate,
    Line 13395 - Query word unsuccessful

The owner of the farm evidently had a desire, to bring it as near as
    Line 13398 - Query word owner

possible to its former aspect, for the buildings were constructed
    Line 13399 - Query word constructed

enclosed the same rectangle, which was completed by the connecting
    Line 13401 - Query word connecting

shingles, new chimneys and door-knobs, had brightened the exterior of
    Line 13410 - Query word exterior

its walls and covered its paintless spots. The saddest and only
    Line 13411 - Query word walls

its walls and covered its paintless spots. The saddest and only
    Line 13411 - Query word paintless

trees, the shriveled and blackened branches of which were mournful
    Line 13413 - Query word blackened

reminders of the once thrifty grove. Those nearest the house were
    Line 13414 - Query word grove

house showed with a distinctness, which brought vividly to the minds
    Line 13419 - Query word distinctness

of those who had frequented the place the catastrophe so destructive
    Line 13420 - Query word destructive

to its luxuriant screen.
    Line 13421 - Query word luxuriant

to its luxuriant screen.
    Line 13421 - Query word screen

In advance of the Ratkes, he went up the steps, unlocked the
    Line 13427 - Query word unlocked

"I would not do that," protested the major. "Gower would not like it,
    Line 13430 - Query word protested

In the parlor were four bookcases closely resembling those the loss
    Line 13439 - Query word bookcases

In the parlor were four bookcases closely resembling those the loss
    Line 13439 - Query word resembling

which it had been his wont to study. He could not resist opening them
    Line 13441 - Query word study

house and John and Manie, sitting on the sofa, conversed in low
    Line 13447 - Query word sofa

"I can disprove that line of argument," he said, putting down the
    Line 13450 - Query word disprove

open volume, "Lord Herbert has made it very easy for his guard to be
    Line 13451 - Query word Lord

beaten, down in that passage."
    Line 13452 - Query word beaten

"I have a paper for you to examine," said John, extending a document,
    Line 13454 - Query word examine

"I have a paper for you to examine," said John, extending a document,
    Line 13454 - Query word document

a deed until after the sheriff's sale of the property. I acquainted
    Line 13468 - Query word sale

buildings erected at my expense. I was confident that the major would
    Line 13470 - Query word erected

buildings erected at my expense. I was confident that the major would
    Line 13470 - Query word confident

meant? You see the dasher is fixed so as to revolve. Loose as it is,
    Line 13485 - Query word fixed

downward and to one side when a downward stroke is given, and upward
    Line 13488 - Query word downward

downward and to one side when a downward stroke is given, and upward
    Line 13488 - Query word downward

and to one side when an upward stroke is given. As it goes downward,
    Line 13489 - Query word downward

other way. This gives an alternate rotary motion, all the benefits of
    Line 13491 - Query word gives

preservation of the butter grain and its speedy gathering is a
    Line 13494 - Query word speedy

combination of results which will make my chum ahead of anything yet
    Line 13495 - Query word results

invented."
    Line 13496 - Query word invented

grubs. At the left Daggett and Brown were husking corn with the
    Line 13500 - Query word grubs

utmost speed. Archer, apparently forsaken by his habit of laziness,
    Line 13501 - Query word speed

utmost speed. Archer, apparently forsaken by his habit of laziness,
    Line 13501 - Query word laziness

was maintaining a still swifter gait. Steady Jack Sheppard, who never
    Line 13502 - Query word swifter

was maintaining a still swifter gait. Steady Jack Sheppard, who never
    Line 13502 - Query word Steady

hurried, who never failed to do a good day's work, was throwing out
    Line 13503 - Query word day's

the ears at a uniform rate without looking up, to the right, or to
    Line 13504 - Query word ears

The major sought the seclusion of the grubs, where he sat on a
    Line 13507 - Query word seclusion

The major sought the seclusion of the grubs, where he sat on a
    Line 13507 - Query word grubs

decayed log, meditating on the recent change in his mood from
    Line 13508 - Query word decayed

two-and-one-half sections, the fields, woods and swamp which had been
    Line 13510 - Query word sections

dear to him in the prime of manhood and were dearer yet in his old
    Line 13511 - Query word prime

dear to him in the prime of manhood and were dearer yet in his old
    Line 13511 - Query word manhood

age. As he stepped from the grubs, how complete seemed the
    Line 13512 - Query word grubs

as it had been. In the swamp, much of which had been protected by
    Line 13514 - Query word protected

woods, the shocked corn, and the new wheat, which was thick and
    Line 13518 - Query word shocked

entered the grubs. Daggett and Brown were still energetically
    Line 13520 - Query word grubs

entered the grubs. Daggett and Brown were still energetically
    Line 13520 - Query word energetically

The tale I have to tell,
    Line 13525 - Query word tale

About the cruel and hard fate.
    Line 13526 - Query word fate

A noisy barking and yelping fell on Ratke's ear. Philetus was dogging
    Line 13529 - Query word barking

A noisy barking and yelping fell on Ratke's ear. Philetus was dogging
    Line 13529 - Query word yelping

A noisy barking and yelping fell on Ratke's ear. Philetus was dogging
    Line 13529 - Query word ear

The clanging of the upright saw, elicited by the vigorous hammering
    Line 13536 - Query word elicited

entered the house, ceased their boisterous remarks, and the sharp
    Line 13542 - Query word ceased

entered the house, ceased their boisterous remarks, and the sharp
    Line 13542 - Query word boisterous

criticism of Mrs. Grippin, who would not gratify him by a caustic
    Line 13543 - Query word criticism

speech. He wished that Daggett would anger her by a joke, or that
    Line 13544 - Query word joke

but neither hope was realized.
    Line 13546 - Query word realized

wondered where such a variety of old wheels, bars, pinions and cranks
    Line 13550 - Query word wondered

wondered where such a variety of old wheels, bars, pinions and cranks
    Line 13550 - Query word variety

wondered where such a variety of old wheels, bars, pinions and cranks
    Line 13550 - Query word bars

been sitting on the sofa with Manie, moved suddenly away from her.
    Line 13554 - Query word sofa

"It has been my misfortune," said the major, "to destroy one of
    Line 13556 - Query word misfortune

Nature's forces."
    Line 13557 - Query word Nature's

intensity of force of attraction at a point multiplied by the square
    Line 13567 - Query word intensity

of the distance, which equals L cube divided by T square. When I came
    Line 13568 - Query word equals

CHAPTER XXXV.
    Line 13573 - Query word XXXV

STRAY LOCALS.
    Line 13574 - Query word LOCALS

Of the six correspondents who contribute to the "Sharptown Sun," an
    Line 13576 - Query word contribute

the editor considered second in merit. He told me confidentially
    Line 13578 - Query word merit

that, although perhaps two of my brother scribes excel me in style,
    Line 13579 - Query word style

not one of them has as keen an instinct for news as I. This
    Line 13580 - Query word keen

shown by my connection with the Sun for three years, induces me to
    Line 13582 - Query word connection

Alf Boyle was killed while resisting the officers who were sent to
    Line 13586 - Query word Boyle

arrest him.
    Line 13587 - Query word arrest

Mrs. Boyle, refusing to change her place of abode, continued her
    Line 13589 - Query word Boyle

Hiram B. Durgenson will not again defraud the farmers. He was
    Line 13593 - Query word Hiram

later, he died.
    Line 13596 - Query word later

the excavation which had been made in the spring. With a lantern,
    Line 13601 - Query word excavation

which they procured after her departure, they explored the
    Line 13602 - Query word procured

underground stable. At first they thought they had discovered the
    Line 13603 - Query word underground

imprisoned smoke. A jury decided that Wallace and Ab were guilty of
    Line 13616 - Query word imprisoned

imprisoned smoke. A jury decided that Wallace and Ab were guilty of
    Line 13616 - Query word guilty

horse-stealing, but Julia was allowed to go unmolested.
    Line 13617 - Query word stealing

Nora's grief over the fate of Montcalm, though sincere, was not of
    Line 13619 - Query word grief

Nora's grief over the fate of Montcalm, though sincere, was not of
    Line 13619 - Query word fate

very great duration. In one of her visits to her Michigan relatives
    Line 13620 - Query word visits

very great duration. In one of her visits to her Michigan relatives
    Line 13620 - Query word relatives

she met Fred Loomis, whose attentions she received and whom she
    Line 13621 - Query word attentions

Ratke's men, who believed they had contributed to his great disaster,
    Line 13624 - Query word contributed

which was now repaired, worked with tolerable faithfulness, but Brown
    Line 13625 - Query word faithfulness

and Archer would occasionally shirk duty. The major's churn, to the
    Line 13626 - Query word occasionally

and Archer would occasionally shirk duty. The major's churn, to the
    Line 13626 - Query word shirk

mortgage, an act which, in the face of the most vehement protests, he
    Line 13629 - Query word vehement

insisted on performing.
    Line 13630 - Query word insisted

An evangelist came to Break o'Day, and Philetus Takum was converted.
    Line 13632 - Query word converted

Philetus remained a devotee of his faith, until Lyman Sparks procured
    Line 13633 - Query word remained

Philetus remained a devotee of his faith, until Lyman Sparks procured
    Line 13633 - Query word procured

a superior breed of cochins with immense thighs and full breasts,
    Line 13634 - Query word immense

when he yielded to the tempter. He was one of those who received the
    Line 13635 - Query word yielded

CHAPTER XXXVI.
    Line 13639 - Query word XXXVI

Among the many advantages which fiction, history and recollection
    Line 13642 - Query word recollection

would have been tedious to the reader. It was in October that Ratke
    Line 13647 - Query word reader

closing scenes of my story occurred.
    Line 13649 - Query word closing

closing scenes of my story occurred.
    Line 13649 - Query word occurred

for they were fond of frequent reunions. Daggett, whose zest for
    Line 13654 - Query word fond

for they were fond of frequent reunions. Daggett, whose zest for
    Line 13654 - Query word frequent

practical jokes seemed unbounded, had inherited from his grandfather
    Line 13655 - Query word jokes

a silk tile, which was very tall and very old. This worn-out hat he
    Line 13656 - Query word silk

a silk tile, which was very tall and very old. This worn-out hat he
    Line 13656 - Query word worn

it to Break o'Day, where it and its owner were greeted with yells of
    Line 13658 - Query word owner

it to Break o'Day, where it and its owner were greeted with yells of
    Line 13658 - Query word greeted

it to Break o'Day, where it and its owner were greeted with yells of
    Line 13658 - Query word yells

derision. The defrauded purchaser on his return discovered that ink
    Line 13659 - Query word derision

derision. The defrauded purchaser on his return discovered that ink
    Line 13659 - Query word defrauded

chastisement by the interference of the men, who had much trouble in
    Line 13662 - Query word chastisement

holding the infuriated Archer.
    Line 13663 - Query word holding

vest and his face was animated with interest. On the floor were many
    Line 13667 - Query word vest

vest and his face was animated with interest. On the floor were many
    Line 13667 - Query word animated

pieces of newly whittled wood and many cast irons. He was holding in
    Line 13668 - Query word cast

pieces of newly whittled wood and many cast irons. He was holding in
    Line 13668 - Query word holding

was giving the last few touches with his jack-knife "This will
    Line 13670 - Query word touches

greatly increase the modulus of the machine," remarked the old man to
    Line 13671 - Query word increase

with their chairs touching each other and Manie's hand resting on his
    Line 13678 - Query word touching

with their chairs touching each other and Manie's hand resting on his
    Line 13678 - Query word resting

Grippin, who thrust her head inside the parlor.
    Line 13680 - Query word thrust

in so dull society?"
    Line 13693 - Query word dull

when I am with one whom I wish to entertain, but who has no concern
    Line 13696 - Query word concern

for things in which I am interested. Left without interruption to my
    Line 13697 - Query word interruption

the truth, I had no reasonable chance to win."
    Line 13703 - Query word win

"So you call those visits a courtship, do you?" asked Manie, with a
    Line 13705 - Query word visits

smile which the darkness concealed, though it could not hide the
    Line 13706 - Query word darkness

smile which the darkness concealed, though it could not hide the
    Line 13706 - Query word concealed

be to keep me from knowing your real sentiments, but I readily
    Line 13708 - Query word readily

"Yes," admitted John, "I was afraid to make known my longing. While I
    Line 13711 - Query word longing

might be when doubt was dispelled. My sex frequently offends by an
    Line 13713 - Query word frequently

"The most frequent offenses," replied Manie, "are caused by a lack of
    Line 13716 - Query word frequent

"That is a strange and questionable theory," replied John.
    Line 13719 - Query word theory

by timidity from enjoying the society of ladies whom they admire.
    Line 13722 - Query word enjoying

by timidity from enjoying the society of ladies whom they admire.
    Line 13722 - Query word ladies

Their addresses, which would be welcomed, are long deferred. They
    Line 13723 - Query word addresses

Their addresses, which would be welcomed, are long deferred. They
    Line 13723 - Query word welcomed

worship at a distance; and by and by, when they summon up their
    Line 13724 - Query word worship

worship at a distance; and by and by, when they summon up their
    Line 13724 - Query word summon

laggard courage and are repulsed, they do not mistrust that their
    Line 13725 - Query word repulsed

laggard courage and are repulsed, they do not mistrust that their
    Line 13725 - Query word mistrust

offers are declined only because they are proffered too late. The
    Line 13726 - Query word declined

ladies, whose attractions are appreciated by other admirers, look
    Line 13727 - Query word ladies

ladies, whose attractions are appreciated by other admirers, look
    Line 13727 - Query word attractions

argumentative. To-night I am too happy for controversy. I feel like
    Line 13731 - Query word argumentative

Silently they passed to the orchard. The sky was almost cloudless and
    Line 13734 - Query word Silently

Silently they passed to the orchard. The sky was almost cloudless and
    Line 13734 - Query word sky

feeling of security that Manie let her head drop on his shoulder. As
    Line 13737 - Query word drop

could protect, he would "love, cherish and protect." She had given
    Line 13739 - Query word protect

could protect, he would "love, cherish and protect." She had given
    Line 13739 - Query word protect

had become rich, the despised had become honored, the weak had become
    Line 13741 - Query word despised

had become rich, the despised had become honored, the weak had become
    Line 13741 - Query word honored

They looked long at the fragments of apple-blossoms which were
    Line 13744 - Query word fragments

dropping in the moonlight. One other May they had been in that
    Line 13745 - Query word dropping

"At one time," said John, "I was nearly convinced of the vanity of
    Line 13753 - Query word vanity

all aspirations. I thought that happiness, if it comes, must be a
    Line 13754 - Query word happiness

from us. Now I know that I was wrong. I dreamed of the bliss which I
    Line 13756 - Query word bliss

should enjoy when I had won you, and I have realized it a
    Line 13757 - Query word enjoy

should enjoy when I had won you, and I have realized it a
    Line 13757 - Query word realized

thousand-fold. Now, Manie, you must not dispute me this time. I do
    Line 13758 - Query word dispute

recognition (OCR) by Google. However, there was much to fix before it
    Line 13767 - Query word recognition

recognition (OCR) by Google. However, there was much to fix before it
    Line 13767 - Query word fix

could be a proper e-book. For instance, stray characters, incorrect
    Line 13768 - Query word characters

could be a proper e-book. For instance, stray characters, incorrect
    Line 13768 - Query word incorrect

characters, hyphens to be removed, entire pages missing or gibberish.
    Line 13769 - Query word characters

characters, hyphens to be removed, entire pages missing or gibberish.
    Line 13769 - Query word entire

This repair work was completed and the book released through the
    Line 13770 - Query word released

honor of his Great-Great-Great-Grandfather George Washington Holland
    Line 13772 - Query word George

From "An Account of Ingham County From Its Organization" by Frank
    Line 13775 - Query word Ingham

From "An Account of Ingham County From Its Organization" by Frank
    Line 13775 - Query word Organization

From "An Account of Ingham County From Its Organization" by Frank
    Line 13775 - Query word Frank

Turner, George Fuller and Michigan Pioneer and Historical Society.
    Line 13776 - Query word George

Holland was historian and poet laureate of Bunkerhill and other
    Line 13778 - Query word historian

townships where he resided for forty years. After 1876 he became the
    Line 13779 - Query word resided

regular correspondent of the Ingham County Democrat and News, the
    Line 13780 - Query word Ingham

regular correspondent of the Ingham County Democrat and News, the
    Line 13780 - Query word Democrat

all kinds of stories. His pen name was "Rough and Ready," and he
    Line 13783 - Query word pen

"Chronicles of Break o'Day." These were revised and made into a book
    Line 13785 - Query word Chronicles

by E. Everett Howe that had quite a sale. Four editions were
    Line 13786 - Query word sale
