The Chronicles of Break o'Day
by Edward Everett Howe
1893

[Transcribers's Notes]

This work was scanned and processed with optical character
recognition (OCR) by Google. However, there was much to
fix before it could be a proper e-book. For instance, stray
characters, incorrect characters, hyphens to be removed, entire
pages missing or gibberish. This repair work was completed and
the book released through the Gutenberg Project by Nathan Hartley.
Nathan performed this work in honor of his Great-Great-Great-Grandfather
George Washington Holland Jr, from whom these stories are believed to
have originated.

From "An Account of Ingham County From Its Organization"
by Frank Turner, George Fuller and Michigan Pioneer and Historical Society.
http://quod.lib.umich.edu/m/micounty/ARH7656.0001.001/292
"G. W. Holland was historian and poet laureate of Bunkerhill and
other townships where he resided for forty years. After 1876 he
became the regular correspondent of the Ingham County Democrat
and News, the Leslie Local, Stockbridge Sun and Lansing Sentinel.
He was justice of the peace for twenty-two years, so could write
from his court docket all kinds of stories. His pen name was
"Rough and Ready," and he edited a set of stories about White
Oak and Leroy townships, "Chronicles of Break o'Day." These
were revised and made into a book by E. Everett Howe that had
quite a sale. Four editions were published by Robert Smith
Printing company."

[End Transcribers's Notes]

[Google's Notes]

Author:                       Edward Everett Howe
Publisher:                    Arena
Year:                         1893
Possible copyright status:    NOT_IN_COPYRIGHT
Language:                     English
Digitizing sponsor:           Google
Book from the collections of: University of Michigan
Collection:                   americana
Description:

Book digitized by Google from the library of the University of Michigan and uploaded to the Internet Archive by user tpb.

Identifier:                   chroniclesbreak00howegoog
Scanner:                      google
Mediatype:                    texts
Identifier-access:            http://www.archive.org/details/chroniclesbreak00howegoog
Oclc-id:                      65747673
Scandate:                     20070524
Copyright-region:             US
Identifier-ark:               ark:/13960/t6h130v0s
Imagecount:                   360
Source:                       http://books.google.com/books?id=ARw1AAAAMAAJ&oe=UTF-8
Lccn:                         07007122

GOOGLE

This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library
shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project to make
the world's books discoverable online.  It has survived long enough for the
copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain
book is one that was never subject to copyright or whose legal copyright term
has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to
country. Public domain books are our gateways to the past, representing a
wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover.
Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will
appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the publisher
to a library and finally to you. 

USAGE GUIDELINES

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials
and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the public and
we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in
order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to prevent abuse
by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated
querying.  We also ask that you:

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use
by individuals, and we request that you use these files for personal,
non-commercial purposes.

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to
Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine translation, optical
character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is
helpful, please contact us. We encourage the use of public domain materials for
these purposes and may be able to help.

+ Maintain attribution the Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential
for in forming people about this project and helping them find additional
materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it.

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for
ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just because we
believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the
work is also in the public domain for users in other countries. Whether a book
is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer
guidance on whether any specific use of any specific book is allowed. Please do
not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used
in any manner anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabilities can be
quite severe. 


ABOUT GOOGLE BOOK SEARCH

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it
universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers discover
the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You
can search through the full text of this book on the web at
http://books.google.com/

[End Google's Notes]


THE CHRONICLES OF BREAK O'DAY
BY
E. EVERETT HOWE


BOSTON
ARENA PUBLISHING COMPANY
Copley Square
1894



Copyrighted 1893
BY
E. EVERETT HOWE
All rights reserved.


Arena Press.


DEDICATION.

My readers who are familiar with the traditions preserved
in this history know one woman who is beloved by rich
and poor, a comforter of the afflicted, a friend of the
friendless, a mother of the motherless, in prosperity
without arrogance, in sorrow without complaint. To
Mrs. Fidelia Gibbins, whose character suggested the
Mrs. Boyle of my story, this volume is respectfully
dedicated.



CONTENTS.

CHAPTER
  I.      A Rural Philosopher
  II.     The New Jerusalem
  III.    A Glimpse of Farm Service
  IV.     A Cirrus becomes a Nimbus
  V.      Ramoth Gilead Predicted
  VI.     The Guerrero Mining Company
  VII.    Montcalm takes a Night's Ramble
  VIII.   Pursuing the Depredators
  IX.     How the Affair Ended
  X.      Two Kinds of Bud Blossom
  XI.     The Root of an Evil
  XII.    The Well with a Barrel Curb
  XIII.   A Daniel come to Judgment
  XIV.    Montcalm finds Dante inaccurate
  XV.     Ivanhoe Criticised by a Master
  XVI.    Mrs. Boyle's House
  XVII.   What Happened in the Swamp
  XVIII.  Break O'Day
  XIX.    The Village has a Sensation
  XX.     A Good Samaritan
  XXI.    Controversy and Reminiscence
  XXII.   Action is Equal to Reaction
  XXIII.  One Hour of Bliss
  XXIV.   A Beethoven and a Gibbon in one
  XXV.    Durgenson Demands his Money
  XXVI.   Ramoth Gilead
  XXVII.  Ruin
  XXVIII. John hears an Account of his Adventure 
  XXIX.   Among the Invalids
  XXX.    The Beginning of Mystery
  XXXI.   Awakening
  XXXII.  Liber Sextus
  XXXIII. The House Divided against Itself
  XXXIV.  Verdure rising from the Ashes
  XXXV.   Stray Locals
  XXXVI.  In the Orchard Again
