CHAPTER III.
A GLIMPSE OF FARM SERVICE.

The farmhouse had been built in the days of Ratke's
prosperity. It was gothic in design and had three principal
rooms -- the sitting-room, the dining-room and the
parlor.

On the northern side, and extending to the kitchen at
the eastern extremity of the dwelling, was a tier of
bedrooms and closets. Not satisfied with the half-dozen
sleeping apartments in the row alluded to and several
more in the chamber, the major had provided for the
construction, on the side facing the street, of two more
bedrooms which, jutting inwardly, formed a narrow hall
between the sitting-room and the parlor.

The main divisions of the house were inappropriately
named, or, at least, not named according to the uses to
which they were put. The dining-room served much as
a sitting-room, the sitting-room on account of its superior
warmth was used in cold weather as a dining-room, and
the parlor, which contained the organ and the library in
four bookcases, was almost daily used by the family. It
is true that this subversion of common usage was much
censured by Mrs. Grippin, but there were, as we have
seen, on this estate and in this household, certain evils
which even she was powerless to remedy.

There were seated around the extension table thirteen
persons, the resident family of four, six hired men, two
prospective ones, and the agent, who was called Panicky,
and whom the major had easily persuaded to stay to
dinner.

"Major," said a fellow whose name was Brown, "how
is it when you're shooting birds on the wing? Do you
want to aim straight at 'em or a little ahead?"

"A little ahead, to be sure," replied Ratke, and, laying
down his knife and fork, he gave a discourse of five
minutes on the principles of absolute and relative motion.

"There, Wingscheut," exclaimed Brown," the reason
you didn't hit the quail was because you aimed straight
at her."

"Tat ain't te reason at all," answered a tall German
with dark hair and a fringe of whiskers running underneath
his chin." I aim't chust as you tolt me an' tat's
te reason I titn't hit 'im."

"Will," asked the major, "did you take good care of
Taylor?"

"I fed him and curried him off," replied Archer, the
man whom Ratke addressed.

"Yes," said the German, in the loud tone he had previously
used, "unt, if it hatn't a peen for me, you
vootn't a hat no Taylor."

"How is that, Wingscheut?" queried the major.

"Vell, you see," began Wingscheut, "las' night I vass
sleepin' in te clup-house. Unt, chust apout tvelf o'clock,
I heert te parn toor co skveak. Veil, I know provitin' te
toor co skveak, somepoty pe tere. Veil, I sit up. Unt I
co out py te tool-house. Ven te toor stop, I stop. Veil,
ven te toor co skveak, I co on. Pimepy te toor go
skveak acin, unt two tam horse-tiefs, tey come out vith
Taylor. Unt tey vass pic fellers, piccern ole Chon
Tafis.

"Veil, ten I come out from te tool-house. Unt I
catched poth of 'em hiplock, von on von hip unt von on
te otter. Unt I trowet 'em. Unt I pountet 'em till tey
hat te sorest faces. Provitin' you hatn't a peen asleep so
sount as you couldn't vake, you voot a heert 'em yell."

"Why didn't you hold 'em when you had 'em?" asked
Jake Sheppard, the oldest and most trusty of the hands.

"Veil, you see," answered Wingscheut, "Taylor he gits
avay. Unt he runs up te roat. Unt I titn't vant to lose
a horse vat vass vorth a tousan' tollars for two tam
horsetiefs vat vass goot for notting at all. So I coes on
after Taylor. Provitin' you ton't pelieve me, I can show you
vere tey lay."

"Wingscheut give 'em sore faces, for I saw him," whispered
a solemn-looking young man from the lower end of the table.

Every one present listened to this confirmation of
Wingscheut's doubtful veracity.

"Veil, you see," continued Daggett, the voiceless young
man, mocking the German's peculiar accent, "Vingscheut
unt me, ve kilt te tam horsie-tiefs, unt ve took teir scalps.
Unt four more tam horse-tiefs, tey come up to git Taylor.
Unt Vingscheut catched two of 'em hiplock. Unt I
catched two of 'em hiplock. Unt ve kilt 'em. Unt ve
took teir scalps. Unt ve vent on to te svamp. Unt ve
fount sixteen more tam horse-tiefs. Unt ve kilt 'em. Unt
ve took teir scalps. Unt, provitin' you ton't pelieve it,
ve can show you te scalps."

When Wingscheut had mastered his disgust and an immense
mouthful of beefsteak, he said:

"' Provitin' I vass such a liar as tat, I voot crawl off in
a holler loc unt tie."

"How do you get along with the one-man saw, Jake? "
queried the major.

"Back aches like time," answered Sheppard, drawing
his hand along his spine.

"That is strange," observed Ratke. "The one-man
saw is certainly a great saving of labor. It allows you,
instead of stooping over, or dropping your hands by your
side, to push toward the log straight from the shoulder.
The motory power is in the muscles of the shoulder and
upper arm; and this power, the hand and the saw, should
be as nearly as possible in a straight line. The common
cross-cut, as it is worked, with the hands on a level with
the hips, is a lever of the third class, power in the center,
fulcrum at one end and weight at the other. In this lever
there is a gain of motion and a corresponding loss of
power. But, as to the loss of motion in the one-man saw,
that can be easily made up by a swaying movement of the
body."

At the conclusion of the meal Wrengell and Montcalm
hired out for the summer, Wrengell getting twenty dollars
per month, and Montcalm, out of consideration for Ratke's
friendship for his father, receiving twenty-five dollars.
Montcalm stayed in the house, conversing with the major,
while the rest of the hired men, together with the vender
of medicine, or Panicky, went to the club-house.

This building was a two-story upright, whose dimensions
were thirty-two by thirty-six feet. On the ground
floor were three bedrooms and one larger apartment,
which contained a clock with an alarm, a table, a stove,
common chairs, rocking-chairs and all the furniture
necessary for the comfortable accommodation of a family.

Panicky surmised that Archer was bilious, that Sheppard
had lumbago, and assured Daggett that all he needed
for the complete restoration of his voice was a bottle of
Great American Panacea. By a series of harangues on
individual complaints, followed by an eloquent exordium,
he sold a bottle of the panacea to the hands, of whom all,
except Wingscheut, contributed equally to the purchase-money.

"Well, boys," said Jake Sheppard, "'m a-goin' to
work."

"Oh! there ain't no hurry," declared Archer; "the
major he wouldn't say anything if we didn't go for an
hour yet."

"Maybe he wouldn't say nothin'," replied Jake, "but
right's right, an' loafin' roun' when you're paid to work
ain't right."

The major sat watching the departure of his nieces,
who were about to drive his trotter, Taylor, to Break O'Day;
The girls were passing a small house not far from the swamp.

The preceding spring Philetus Takum had come to
Ratke with a piteous appeal for help. He had been
turned out of doors by his landlord, and left without
shelter for himself and his family.

The major, against the remonstrances of his household
erected a tenement house near the swamp and put it into
the possession of Takum. But . Philetus proved a disappointment
to his benefactor. Not only did he neglect
to pay the promised rent, but he circulated some annoying
untruths and many more annoying truths concerning
Ratke and his mortgaged estate.

The most valuable of Takum's personal property was a
mongrel shepherd dog which bore the name of Lina.

Next in value were two of her full-grown progeny, which
Philetus kept, for he had made many a solemn declaration
that he would not sell a pup for less than one dollar, and
he had been offered for the largest one only eighty-five
cents. Mrs. Grippin declared that the dogs ate eggs, and
that their master had an equal fondness for stolen
chickens.

Ratke was sitting, as was his wont in meditation, with
his left leg thrown over the arm of his rocking-chair, his
elbow on his knee and his head resting on his hand. Left
to himself, he plunged deeply into his philosophical
studies. His mind was clear, his absorption complete.
The principles of nature's mighty phenomena, enlarging
in scope and simplifying in form, passed one by one before
his vision with clearness and majesty; and, as he
thought, more than ever showed the harmony of natural
and mental philosophy.

He became conscious that something was drawing him
away from his delightful reverie. Some external circumstance
was tugging at his attention, which still clung
tenaciously to the theories which he was formulating.
Reluctantly he dropped his hand and threw his left leg
from the arm of the rocking-chair, when he heard the
voice of Mrs. Grippin calling from the chamber,

"James, James."

"Yes," returned the major, throwing his leg back to its
favorite position.

"James, James," cried Mrs. Grippin, more loudly than
before.

"All right," responded Ratke.

"But it isn't all right," said the housekeeper. "Come
up here, and you'll see that it's all wrong."

"I suppose I must go," thought the major. "Maria is
a continuous force, which, though exercising a slight
amount of influence per unit of time, in the lapse of concrete
time brings to bear a stress, the total amount of
which is enormous."

When he entered the chamber, Mrs. Grippin was standing
on a box by a north window, from which she was
endeavoring to obtain a view of the woods where the men
were at work.

"I can't see many of them," she said. "There is the
new man you like so well with the one-man saw. See
how he has to pull! It looks as though it would break
his back. He's got that swaying motion of the body you
tell so much about. I guess nobody would pull that thing
through a log without swaying the body."

"If that is all you want of me," remarked the major,
"I will go down."

"I think some of the men are shirking," said Mrs.
Grippin. "The woods are in the way so I can't see them.
You'd better go down where they are."

"I do not like to appear suspicious of them," the major
remonstrated. "Does it not please you to know that
others have confidence in you?"

"Yes, confidence in everybody," answered Mrs. Grippin;
"that's the trouble with you. Men consult their own
interest and they don't work hard for other folks unless
they have to."

"Why," ejaculated Ratke, "you are advocating the
principles of 'Elementa Philosophica de Cive.'"

"What do I care what you call it?" returned Mrs.
Grippin." I tell you, you can't trust folks in that way
without watching them."

"Bolder yet!" exclaimed the major. "Now you are
branching off on the Leviathan. I never thought you
would be a Hobbist, Maria."

"Do I have any more hobbies than you do," furiously
retorted the housekeeper; "you, with your nonsense that
nobody else can stand? I'd talk about hobbies."

"No, no, Maria," mildly expostulated the major. "A
Hobbist means---"

"I don't care what it means," interrupted Mrs. Grippin.
"James Ratke, if you don't go down there I won't get a
morsel of dinner for your men. Now, you can understand.
You can do just as you like."

"I can go for the sake of peace," said the major, with
a sigh.

When he started from the house, he was looking over
the tops of some tamaracks at the right of his destination,
which he meant to reach by means of the path leading to
the woods. Now it is unlikely that anything in the tamaracks
interested him, if at that time he was conscious of
their existence. Whatever the cause of his abstraction,
it had the effect of taking him far out of his intended
course. Nor was he aware of the deviation until he was
confronted by the thick growth of bushes, which, to enter,
he had to part with his hands. Suspending temporarily
his meditations, he came upon a path which ran trans-
versely through the shrubs, and which crossed at right
angles the one which he had intended to follow.

He proceeded along this path and stopped near a
broken tree whose upper portion, lying on the ground,
was hidden from him by the standing stub. Glancing
around and satisfying himself that he was not observed
he said slowly and emphatically,

"Proposition I.: The will of man has the power of
independent decision.

"Proposition II. : All external forces acting upon the
will are persuasive and not coercive." Here the major
paused and spatted his hands with great emphasis.

"Proposition III. : Whenever in---"

There was a rustling in the bushes followed by a succession
of very rapid and heavy blows from an ax. Going
around the stub, the major came upon Archer, who was
working at a rate which, had it been maintained, would
soon have cut down the patch of grubs so circumscribing
to the observations of Mrs. Grippin. It is impossible to
tell which one of the two was most embarrassed, the hired
man who had been sleeping on the fallen tree or his employer
who had been caught in what would generally be
considered a very foolish soliloquy.

Each felt that he had drawn the unpleasant attention
of his companion, and each consequently gave no heed
to the weakness of the other.

The major was the first to speak.

"You are knocking them down at a great rate. Will."

"Yes," answered Archer, springing toward a sapling,
which he felled at a few tremendous strokes.

"I would not heat myself too much," protested the
major. "There are other days coming."

"Got to earn our money," returned Archer, rushing
at another sapling.

"It seems to me," remarked the major, "that one
making such violent exertions as you are would be
encumbered by two coats and a jacket."

"Ain't had time to take 'em off yet," explained Archer,
as he threw aside his superfluous clothing. "Whew, but
it's warm!"

"I think I will go over where the boys are," observed
the major. "I only hear one saw there."

Archer, clearing his throat, struck up a fragment of a
song, whose pitch to the end was not more than a note
higher or lower than the one with which it commenced.

    "There was a man in days of old,
    He had a daughter as I've been told;
    And this daughter, she had a lover
    Who was not liked much by her mother."

At the conclusion of the doggerel strain, the woods were
ringing with life. A saw vibrated more energetically than
the one which Ratke had first heard, and several axes
were swung so rapidly as to produce almost a clatter.

"Right at it," remarked the major, as he neared the
spot where Brown and Daggett were sawing. "I see
that there are a great many ergs of work in my men."

Daggett's hard sawing, by which he had sought to lull
the major's suspicion, resulted in a fit of violent coughing,
and he was obliged to seat himself on a log and wait until
the paroxysm had passed.

"That is a bad cough, boy," said the major, "and you
are making it worse by getting heated."

"Oh, I'm all right," returned Daggett.

"No, you are in a bad condition," contradicted the
major." I insist that you take a more moderate gait. I
do not wish you to exhaust your energy before the
commencement of the summer's work. I must go up where
Trace is now."

"Hanged if I ain't ashamed," commented Daggett,
when the major had gone out of hearing. "Here we've
been playing off all we could, and the first thing we know
he comes around and tells us to go slower. I half believe
that, if I was well, I'd pitch in and work decent for the
old fellow."

"Oh, no, you wouldn't," returned Brown. "You
wouldn't like that any better than you do now. We
didn't have much warning, did we? Will got asleep. He
must of. An' it wasn't the square thing to do."

"No, it wasn't," affirmed Daggett, forgetting his
resolution to be industrious. "We'll get even with him for
that. Go up and tell him the captain demands his immediate
presence."

Archer, whose craving for sleep had been nearly satisfied
by indulgence, was not loth to leave his position as
sentinel. Such a summons was usually the forerunner of
sport, and he believed, from the direct manner in which
Daggett had sent for him, that, for the coming amusement,
he was not to pay the reckoning.

But the discontented looks of the men gave token that
they were not in the best of humor, while by their frequent
glances toward him he was warned that he was the
object of their dissatisfaction.

"Well, boys," he called out, "has the old man gone?
I done my duty as a sentinel, didn't I ? I warned you."

"Yes, you did warn us," said Daggett in a whisper
which was almost vocalization, "after the boss had got
here. That was a great way to do."

"I didn't see him," explained Archer, "until he got
right onto me. And the first thing I knew I heard him
getting off some of his philosophy trash."

"You vass sleepin'," asserted Wingscheut. "Tat vass
a mean trick. Provitin' I cootn't vake up a little vile, I
voot co to pet."

"Take him to the guard-house," ordered Daggett.

Archer was seized, and, despite his struggles and
threats, thrown to the ground, when the men began to
cover him with brush. Whenever he attempted to rise,
he was pushed back; and, as soon as he threw aside a
bush, it was succeeded by another. So, realizing the
uselessness of further resistance, he lay still and was
at once completely hidden by a quantity of limbs.

"Helloa, boys, here comes the major!" exclaimed
Daggett. "Lay low, Will, till he goes. It won't be
long."

"That rate would pile all the brush there is here in a
short time," remarked the major, as he stood among the
men. "It is a good plan, too, to complete the work as
you go. Here are some limbs which have lain so long
that they have been grown over by sod. Pile on those
old poles while you are about it."

Thereupon, to Daggett's delight and Archer's dismay,
the major brought a log larger than any of the hands
could carry, and placed it upon the brush-heap, which
was already large.

"Have any of you a match?" inquired the major. "I
believe I will fire this heap."

The men looked at each other in alarm.

"No, we haven't," answered Daggett.

"Why, I have one," said Ratke. "Now let us get
some of these dry leaves together and we may make it
burn."

"It will not go," remarked the major, as the flame
flickered and died out. "If I had another match, I could
start it. "Now, boy, come up and get something for
that cough."

"Oh, I don't want anything for that," returned Daggett."
That will be all right when it comes warm weather."

"We must attend to it now," urged Ratke.

"No, I guess I won't go," said Daggett, feeling very
uneasy at this manifestation of his employer's kindness.

"What, mutiny?" exclaimed the major, putting his
arm around the young man and dragging him along.
"You see that you have no option in the matter."

Daggett noticed that the major made no remark about
Archer's disappearance. He had a suspicion that the
philosopher, even when he was showing him such marks
of kindness, understood the faithlessness of him and his
fellows. Looking back as he was passing through the
shrubs, he saw a head of wavy black hair emerging from
a brush-heap and a fist shaken viciously toward him, but
he kept the discovery to himself.
