CHAPTER VII.
MONTCALM TAKES A NIGHT'S RAMBLE.

The spring was advanced to May. A few changes had
taken place at the farm. The major had prosecuted with
more than his usual vigor his various enterprises. He had
improved his Jerusalem wagon. He had exercised a better
supervision over his hired men. He had succeeded in
reducing the hill almost to a level with the quagmire, a
task which, owing to his under-estimation of the number
of grammes of force required for the transfer, or to his
overestimation of the number of ergs of work in his men, had
taken longer than he had expected. Wingscheut, dissatisfied
with the shoveling which he had been obliged to do,
had hired out to Lyman Sparks, where he had found
smaller wages and harder work.

The large clock in the sitting-room had struck eleven,
and the Ratke family and farm hands, with one exception,
had gone to bed. Montcalm, thoughtful and gloomy, sat
in his bedroom. The last month had not been one of
satisfaction to him. He had been accustomed to have
his attentions sought after instead of seeking for an
opportunity to bestow them. Some social triumphs, it is
true, had been his; but Manie, whom of all women he
most admired, had declined to accept his addresses, and
had even hinted that his compliments savored more of
flattery than of sincerity.

Irresolutely the restless hired man rose and peered from
his window. The evergreens, almost touching;; the house,
were moving slightly their branches and emitting a
subdued murmur which was scarcely audible.

Casting off his indecision, Montcalm began to unlock
one of two trunks which were in the room. The trunk
was well fastened, requiring him to press several springs
and to turn a thin key before the lid flew open and its
contents were revealed. Had the major glanced over
Montcalm's shoulder at that moment, he would have been
struck with astonishment; but he could not possibly have
named any considerable proportion of the articles which
he would have seen. There were small saws, iron or steel
implements, and, most curious of all, four large woolen
pads, to which were attached hollow columns of leather
resembling bootlegs, and each of which, when placed upon
the floor, covered an area of more than one square foot.

Picking up the pads and a long steel bar and putting
them into a large sack, Montcalm opened the window and
climbed stealthily to the ground. From the shelter of the
trees he scrutinized the road, which showed no sign of
being traversed. The moon had set, but the stars,
unobscured save by a few thin streaks of cloud, in a
measure made up for the missing light. Passing to the barn
from the lower edge of the shaded walk, he continued his way
at a distance from the road sufficient to escape the
observation of a possible passer-by and was soon in the
rear of the tenement house occupied by Philetus Takum.

His approach was heralded by a suppressed growl, and
Takum's yellow dog, Lina, and two litters of pups, one
about the size of large cats, the other larger than their
mother, came out to give him a canine welcome. The
elder dog with the younger progeny trotted back to the
nest under the house, but the larger pups capered about
him as if desirous to become acquainted.

The place had about it an air of thriftlessness, quite
suggestive of the character of its inhabitants. The fence
which had bounded the yard had yielded to the demand
for fuel, and in the place where a wood-pile had once been
there were left not chips enough to kindle a fire. A light
streamed through a window, from which had been broken
several panes of glass, whose places had been supplied by
a board, some rags and two old hats.

In the house, a female voice was charging Takum with
a neglect to provide wood, and from the loft came boyish
complaints, which were indistinguishable to Montcalm.

"Harv," growled Takum, "you quit your crowdin', or
I'll be up there d'rectly."

Montcalm, going to the rear of some bushes, whither
he was followed by the pups, lifted one of them by the
tail clear from the ground, an act which elicited a
doleful lament, and brought the mother snarling to the
assistance of her offspring.

"Shut up, you brutes," yelled Takum, poking his head
from the door. "What in thunder is the matter with
'em ?" he ejaculated, as the noise continued unabated.

"Why! Mr. Montcalm," he exclaimed, as he suddenly
confronted the visitor. "I didn't know you was here. I
thought somethin' was the matter with the pups by the
way Lina took on."

"And so there was," replied Montcalm. "This one
was clever enough to call you out for me. Get your hat
and come on. Get one you are not used to wearing."

"Ain't it purty light?" asked Philetus. "Seems to me
it is."

"Very well," returned Montcalm, "if you are afraid, I
can get some one else."

"Oh, no, I ain't afraid,' assured Takum. "But I
thought, you know. I'll git my hat right off."

"Get one of those from the window," said Montcalm.
"Do not let your wife know that any one is with you."

Montcalm and Takum traversed the field in front of
Ratke's at an angle sufficient to bring them some distance
in the rear of the leveled hill. As, after crossing several
other fields, they clambered over a fence which bounded
a strip of timber, some sheep fled through the bushes in
alarm.

"Jerusalem!" said Takum. "Wouldn't this be a fine
place for a feller to help himself to mutton? I thought
they was runnin' over by the church. They was last
week. Green keeps his sheep fat, too. But they ain't so
fat as Lyme Sparkses. His sheep is just a wad o' fat.
But of all sheep ole Ratke's. Gosh all Friday ! I wouldn't
eat one o' his sheep for a farm. But say, if you like
chickens, Lyme 'Sparks has got some o' the biggest, fattest
Cochins you ever see. They grow quick, you know.
Why, the meat 'ill almost sqush in your hands."

"I am not hungry for chickens," Montcalm shortly
replied.

"Mebbe you like ducks better," suggested Philetus.
"Green has got some o' the genuine Pekin. We might
as well kill two birds with one stone."

"I have no appetite for ducks," answered Montcalm.
"Let us attend to the business in hand."

"I s'pose nothin'll satisfy you but a goose," said
Takum. "Widder Smith is the only one in this hull
country that keeps geese. They're the plaguiest things to
hook, though, you ever see. They'll get right on the
doorstep an' gabble, gabble enough to wake the nations.
But they ain't none on 'em sharp enough for me. Just you
watch, an' I'll show you a trick that'll make you open
your eyes."

"Is your name Phleet?" inquired Montcalm.

"That's the handle I go by," answered Takum.

"Well, then, Phleet, you have altogether too much
mouth for a man of your size. Do what I tell you to do,
and never mind hens and geese."

"What is that?" he exclaimed, as some animals came
cautiously in view at the edge of an open space. "They
are your dogs."

The older pups, which, alone, had ventured to follow,
were by a few clubs sent yelping back to the residence of
Takum.

"Nice help the boss picked out for me," commented
Montcalm---"a fool and his dogs."

"I'm a-goin' back," said Philetus, "I ain't a-goin' to
stay here to be abused."

"You can go a little ways, if you like," answered Montcalm,
"about a step. At the second I shall shoot you."

Philetus was terrified as much by the kindly tone of
Montcalm as by the savage words with which it was
coupled. So dreadful a threat, uttered in such a manner,
he believed was not an idle one. He followed in silence
his superior, whom he watched with wonder and fear.

Emerging from the woods, they came to a lane which
led to the barns of Green.

"You are working in finely, Phleet," complimented
Montcalm.

"I'm glad you think so, Mr. Montcalm," responded
Philetus in the lowest of whispers, as much pleased at
the compliment as was one of his dogs at his own fondling.

"Lie here by this straw-stack," commanded Montcalm,
as they entered the barn-yard. "I will take a turn about,
the house. Can you tell me where all the folks sleep ? "

"Ole Green and Mis' Green they sleep in the bedroom
this way," answered Philetus, so cautiously that he could
be barely heard. "An' the fool, he sleeps upstairs. An'
say, don't git mad if I talk too much, but mebbe ole Green
ain't gone to bed. He don't always burn lights, just to
save oil, you know."

"I am glad you spoke of that," said Montcalm, taking
the opportunity to soothe Takum's wounded feelings. "I
will be careful."

Philetus, whose nerves had not recovered from the
shock which they had received in the woods, was content
to lie hidden in the straw. He started nervously, as he
heard the whisper of Montcalm, who approached from a
direction opposite to that in which he had set out.

"Everything is all right. Bring on that sack," said
Montcalm.

Green, following the custom which prevailed among
Jackson County farmers, kept his horse-barn locked.
Montcalm drew the steel bar from the sack, inserted
it in the staple, and at a few hearty wrenches twisted the
fastening from its place.

Takum's curiosity concerning the sack, for the
satisfaction of which he had not dared ask a question, had
now an opportunity to be gratified. Montcalm took one
of the strange-looking articles and endeavored to put the
boot-like attachment on the leg of a colt which stood in a
farther stall; but the animal was high-spirited, and he
was obliged to summon Takum to his assistance.

The efforts of both were required to encase the feet of
the colt in the pads. Considerable noise was made by
the beast, as he stepped about trying to keep his feet
from the clumsy coverings by which they were being
cumbered.

Montcalm ordered Takum to stay close to the corn-
crib, which was between the barns and the house, while he
made a second tour about the latter building.

"Everything is quiet," he remarked, as he returned to
his waiting ally. "Both of us must get that horse by the
bridle, one on each side, for he promises to give us some
trouble."

It was as Montcalm had predicted. The animal, when
he comprehended that the bulky articles were on his feet,
shied from side to side and came very near jamming
Montcalm against the corner of a post. But the pads,
soft as boxing-gloves, so muffled the sound that it could
be heard but a few rods; and when the horse trod the
solid ground, his uneasiness abated.

"You may ride if you like," said Montcalm, when they
were in the lane.

"No, I'd rather foot it," answered Philetus, suspecting
that the colt would not prove a docile beast of burden.

With a leap Montcalm lighted on the back of the
horse, which plunged furiously forward, but subsided to a
slower gait when he felt the grip of the master on his
rein. Philetus, afraid to lag behind, raced after his
superior at a pace which severely taxed his powers and
led him to the conclusion that hereafter, should he be
given the choice, he would hazard a possible fall rather
than accept the alternative of certain exertions which
were more violent than pleasant. At the entrance to the
woods Montcalm dismounted and opened the gate before
he was joined by his breathless subordinate. He led the
colt through the timber, as the trees and overhanging
limbs might lead to a casualty should he remain on the
animal's back.

"Say," whispered Philetus, "don't think I'm a-talkin'
too much, but Green calls this colt Billy."

"I am glad you told me," replied the leader. "It may
help me to manage him."

The direction which they were pursuing was southeasterly.
Philetus was astonished to see Montcalm, a
stranger in the neighborhood, lead the way through the
woods with a facility which he, a practiced raider of the
vicinity, could not have equaled. Nor did his surprise
abate when his companion, tying his horse to a sapling,
brought from beneath a rotten log a sack, concerning the
contents of which he was too much intimidated to inquire,
but which he believed to contain a set of large woolen
pads.

They were obliged to let down a fence in order to pass
from the woods. After the rails were put back to their
places, Montcalm told Philetus that he might ride; and
that worthy, remembering the strain to which his legs
were subjected in the lane, gladly accepted his offer.

Philetus had not far to practice his equestrianism. He
passed through a gate, which led into the road and which
Montcalm opened.

The large square house of Lyman Sparks, visible in the
starlight, stood behind its partial screen of small
pine-trees. It was evident from the buildings that the
farm was owned by one whose success had been obtained by
mastering the details of his profession. Not a stray board
could be seen about the premises. Not a picket was
loose in the fence which enclosed the house. The barns
were models of comfort to the stock and convenience to
the farmer; and between them was a straw-stack
symmetrically built and having a neatly rounded top.

In front of the barnyard were some walnut-trees, and to
a limb which hung conveniently low Montcalm tied the
halter-strap of the stolen horse.

"In which barn is Madge T.?" he asked.

"In the one this way, the first stall," answered Takum.

"Stand by that small building," said Montcalm, "and
watch the horse. If you hear any disturbance, notify me
at once."

Philetus was by the protection of a not unfamiliar
retreat, for it was the hen-house which he had so often
visited. His instinct of thieving --- for the propensity
had become an instinct --- was stronger than his fear of
Montcalm, especially in the absence of the latter. In a
very short time he had one of Sparks' matchless Cochins
stuffed inside his jacket. His intrusion aroused a cackling
protest among the fowls, and the dog, which had hitherto
kept quiet, now ran out and added to the tumult. Philetus,
alarmed at the result of his action, went hastily to
Montcalm, and whispered,

"That dog's out, and they can't nobody stop him."

"The pads are all on," said Montcalm. "Help me lead
out this horse, and we will get away immediately."

"Quick, Mr. Montcalm!" said Takum in excitement.
"They're a-comin'! They're a comin'! "

Just then Sparks, clad in his under-garments, shouted
from his back porch,

"Halt! Where be you a-goin' with my horse?"

"Jump on her back," ordered Montcalm. "Ride east
a quarter of a mile and wait. I will join you as soon as I
can."

There was near the barn from which Madge T. had
been taken a third party, whose proximity was not
suspected, either by Sparks or by the depredators. The
vender of "Great American Panacea" repulsed at every
house where he had asked for a night's lodging, had
sought the straw-stack, in the side of which a hole had
been eaten by the stock. The barking of the dog and the
disturbance in the hen-house and in the stable suggested
that he was not the only intruder, and the voice of Sparks
confirmed the indications from other sources. With the
conviction that the location was becoming dangerous, the
peddler picked up his satchels and prepared to depart.
He emerged from the cavern in the side of the straw-stack
at the same moment that Wingscheut, who had dilatorily
followed Sparks and his boy, came around the corner of
the hen-house and confronted him.

Once face to face with the supposed horse-thief, the
German was far from feeling the courage of which he was
wont to boast. His employer and son were on the opposite
side of the barn, and before their arrival to his
assistance, he might be killed by the desperate stranger.
His conduct was determined by the indecision of Panicky.
His valor returned with tenfold intensity as the peddler
whirled, dropped his satchels and made toward the barnyard
fence, and with a wild dash he caught him with his
boasted hiplock and brought him heavily to the ground,
yelling at the top of his voice,

"I'fe cot te tam horse-tief ! I'fe cot te tam horse-tief!"

Poor Panicky clutched the wrists of Wingscheut, whose
intention was mercilessly to pound him. He would have
given the contents of his satchels, of his pockets, even the
clothes he wore, to be placed, unhampered, four feet from
his captor.

"Oh, let me up!" he pleaded, clinging to the writhing
hands, which threatened to descend upon him with crushing
force. "I haven't stole any horse."

"Yes you haf stole a horse," affirmed Wingscheut,
struggling to free his hands, "te pest horse in te whole
country. I'll cif you a face vat von't look coot in 
Suntay-school. Let co my hant, I tell you. Can't you mint
notting? Come kill te tam horse-tief," he added, as Sparks
and his boy drew near.

Montcalm did not wait to see his order to Takum
obeyed. He ran down the graveled drive and to the
walnut-tree before he was passed by Philetus. He had
hitched the horse underneath the tree, the limbs of which
were low, so that he could distinctly see neither the house
nor the barn. An embarrassing difficulty was now presented.
The halter-strap, at which the colt had been
continually pulling, could not be readily untied; and he
had left his knife at home in a pocket of his working
clothes. Pulling and twisting, he managed to break the
limb and disengage the severed extremity from the
halter-strap.

It was at this juncture that he heard Wingscheut
proclaiming that he had captured the horse-thief. He was
at a loss to account for the circumstance. Madge T. had
certainly raced by him, but behind the low-hanging bushes
he had not ascertained whether Philetus were on her back,
although he had had no suspicion that such was not the
case. He laid hold of a strong stick which had been used
to knock walnuts from the tree, before he decided on his
course of action, but all doubts as to the cause of the
outcry were at an end when Wingscheut again called Sparks
to come and kill the horse-thief.

Whatever were the faults of Montcalm, he was not the
one to desert an ally. Assuring himself that his revolver
was ready for use, he sprang upon the back of the horse
and dashed up the drive, through a gate which had been
left open by Sparks, and around the corner of the barn.

The Sparkses, happening to look up in season, fled
before what they supposed to be a rescue of cavalry,
effecting their retreat through a second gate which led
into the lane. Wingscheut, intent on pounding Panicky
and unwarned by the muffled hoofs of the horse, which
made but little noise, did not realize his danger until
communication with the house and with his employer
was cut off. He was frightened at the prospect of
receiving the violence which he was anxious to mete out
to another, and he limped around the straw-stack with a
speed which was, for a man who had a crippled leg, almost
phenomenal. His terror did not find vent in words until
Montcalm raced up and struck him several blows with his
cudgel, when he exclaimed:

"Ton't kill a man vat ain't to plame! Warum schlägst
du mich? Was hab' ich gethan? I ain't tone notting!
Te teffil, I ain't tone notting!"

Montcalm, satisfied that those whom he had dispersed
would not soon organize for pursuit, turned his horse by
a considerable effort and rode back to Panicky, who,
satchels in hand, was preparing to leave the locality, which
had for him no pleasant recollections. "Here," said
Montcalm, unable distinctly to see the man whom he had
rescued, and supposing him to be Philetus, "jump on
quick and ride away."

"I don't believe I care to ride," answered Panicky.

"What!" ejaculated Montcalm. "Who are you ?"

The marauder leaped on his horse, from which he had
dismounted, and was instantly flying down the drive. His
perplexity over the incident at the straw-stack did not
abate when he found Takum waiting at the appointed
place.

"Oh! Mr. Montcalm," whispered Philetus, "I was
afraid they'd caught you. I heard 'em sayin' they'd got
the horse-thief and they was a-goin' to kill 'im. This ain't
hookin' chickens. We better be gittin' right out o' here."

"There is no hurry," replied Montcalm. "They are
no more anxious to find us than we are to find them.
Drive your horse out to the side of the road, and we will
trot along. Did you see any one around the barn or
straw-stack?"


"Nary a body," said Takum. "Can't you touch up
your horse, Mr. Montcalm? Caesar! how this mare pulls.
I can't hold her. 'Twouldn't do for us to git far apart.
They'd git away with us sure."

"I will try to keep so close to you that you can protect
me," Montcalm answered.

"That's just what I'll do," said Takum. "I'll stick
closer'n a brother. Less see if there's any run in these
horses."

"We will stop here," said Montcalm, as they came to a
wood at the end of the road. "Let down the fence. Be
careful," he cautioned, as Takum threw the rails right
and left.

"They're a-gittin' the neighbors out!" whispered
Philetus. "That's Sparkses boy. Just hear him yell!
Less light out!"

"They will not be here under half an hour," said Montcalm
"We must put up this fence or they will track us."

The wood was here easy of access. It had been used as
a picnic ground and had been consequently cleared of
underbrush. "Most of the trees were white oaks, the limbs
of which, unadorned, save by newly sprouted leaves,
admitted the direct rays of the stars and the diffused
light of the rising moon, though that luminary was not yet
visible above the tree tops. Farther along the slope which
the plunderers and their booty were descending, the trees
were taller, closer together and covered with a more
luxuriant growth of leaves. The boundary between the
forest and the great swamp was formed by a strip of small
ash and poplars, through which led, here and there, a
path.

Ordering Takum to hold the horses, Montcalm went
into the bushes and soon reappeared with two pairs of
high rubber boots.

"Hello," exclaimed Takum, who was beginning to lose
his apprehension of pursuit, "how did you know them
boots was there?"

"It is no bad thing to be good at guessing," said
Montcalm. "Strip off your cowhides and put on a pair,
for you will need them. After we get through this
thicket, we will ride till we come to the high bushes."

They rode easily through low brush and the belt of
water, which at the edge reached nearly to the horses'
bodies, but which grew shallow as they proceeded. When
they came to the high bushes, however, the brutes refused
to proceed farther. Montcalm tied the colt, removed the
pads from the feet of the animals, and led Madge T.,
while Philetus was ordered to urge her from the rear.
Sparks' trotter never before experienced such a
castigation as was administered to her by the tamarack
pole in the hands of the obedient Takum. Although
the distance was not more than half a mile, and Philetus
in wielding the pole spared neither the brute nor his own
muscle, it was thirty minutes before they reached the
tamaracks.

"Well," remarked Takum, wiping the sweat from his
brow, "we can't git no horse through them tamaracks."

"Let me show you how these trees grow," said Montcalm,
pulling one of them from the ground, in which a sharpened
point had been sticking.

"I swan!" ejaculated the wondering Philetus, "somebody
has cut them poles and stuck 'em back in again."

Madge T. was again tied, and the two men commenced
to pull the trees from a narrow space which had been
prepared for the speedy completion of a road. Many
fallen and nearly decayed tamaracks, which had been left
to give the way a natural appearance, were by Montcalm's
command lifted aside carefully, that they might again be
returned, unchanged, to their former position. It was
necessary to be near the trees which had been cut and
set in the ground to distinguished them from those which
were standing as they had grown. But a careful observer
would have noticed that the ground was disturbed, that
many of the trees were leaning, and that his feet often
stepped on the small stumps, which were imperfectly
hidden by ruffled moss. Montcalm depended for the
security of the stolen property on the loneliness of the
place more than on the measures he had taken to provide
for the closing of the road when his booty should have
passed through. Nor was this confidence ill-founded.
The huckleberries and tamaracks were so thick that in
many places it was impossible to see at a distance of more
than six feet. The mat of bushes, catching at clothes and
striking when they were bent back and released, were
certain to occupy a liberal share of the attention of
possible wanderer, if, as was quite unlikely, he might be
led at that season of the year, by business or curiosity,
to flounder through the mire and water which surrounded the
swamp.

As they proceeded into the interior of the thicket, the
trees were larger and farther apart, so that few of them had
to be removed. The road here became more winding,
not only because those who cleared it found it easier to
pass around than to chop down a large trunk, but because
this method offered less danger of detection. Presently
the way became straighter and the trees smaller and more
numerous, as at the edge of the tamaracks.

In a cleared spot of a few yards in area the plunderers
halted. Ample provision had been made for the
accommodation of the horses. By the border of the clearing
were a bag of oats, some bedding and a large bundle of hay
wound about with a rope. Had Philetus possessed the
spirit of romanticism, he would have reveled in the scene
before him. But unappreciated, even unnoticed, was that
combination of picturesqueness formed by the rising moon,
the spoils of the foray, the steed which had been ridden
in the expedition, the dark, resolute face of the leader and
the wall of marshy forest which screened him in his
retreat.

The ground, which in most swamps is highest at the
center, was here quite dry. It was covered by moss, on
which was spread a finer carpeting -- the leaves which had
dropped the preceding fall; and over it arched the
tamaracks, which had put forth their peculiar pointed
foliage before the phlegmatic oaks of the upland had
covered their naked branches after the lethargy of winter.

The second horse was more difficult to lead than the
first. He pulled back on his halter and when urged by
the blows with which Takum belabored him, plunged
ahead with such vehemence that Montcalm was scarcely
able to hold him. It was a relief to Philetus when both
horses were eating together in the opening. The work of
replacing the sharpened stakes occupied some minutes.
Montcalm insisted that the old brush and fallen poles
should be dragged back to their places and arranged with
care.

More disagreeable than the task which they had completed
was that of wading through the water which skirted
the marsh. The rubber boots, high as they were, sank
beneath the surface, and the clothing of the lower limbs
was saturated with muddy water. In the border of the
woods the men changed their rubber for leather boots,
and Montcalm substituted for his drenched trousers a pair
which he found in a clump of bushes, and which had been
left evidently with a view to meeting that exigency.

"Ain't it about time we was makin' towards home, Mr.
Montcalm?" asked Philetus.

"Why, are you sick of foraging?" inquired Montcalm.

"No, I ain't sick of it, as you might say," answered
Takum, "but I've got enough of it for just now, you know.
My legs is about petered."

"I think you and I can do a very good business," said
Montcalm.

"That's about what I think," returned Takum. "Me
an' you is hustlers, an' they hadn't nobody better interfere
with us neither."

As Takum finished this speech, his foot caught in a
brush, and he was thrown against a tree with such force
that his jacket was unbuttoned and the dead hen tumbled
against a log with a thud.

"How did you come by that?" demanded Montcalm.

"Well, you see," answered the terrified Philetus, "I
was right there, you know, by the hen-house, you know,
an' I thought it wouldn't do any hurt, seein' I'knew the
way in, to git this chicken."

"Was that when the dog barked?" asked Montcalm.

"No, just afore," acknowledged Takum. "You ain't
mad, be you, Mr. Montcalm?"

"I would not try any such thing again," said Montcalm.
"You must attend to business and let hens, ducks and
geese alone. You are green at the work, but by training
you will make a good hand."

"You bet your sweet neck," replied Philetus. "I ain't
no two-spot. Say, don't you think me an' you could git
them horses without accountin' to nobody for 'em?"

"No, it would not be best," said Montcalm. "We
could not sell them without getting caught. Besides, there
is a great risk in taking them. I never work in a
neighborhood long after I start a gang. You and I have too
long heads to wallow through swamps and risk our necks
around other men's barns at night. We will do the
planning, and let some one else do the work."

"Say, but there is somethin' in that," acquiesced
Philetus. "Me an' you can do the plannin'. I was to git
ten dollars for what I done, an' I've been scart more'n
ten dollars' worth, take it all around. Don't none o' the
men you have to work for you ever tell?"

"Oh, yes!" answered Montcalm, "they sometimes do."

"An' do you ever hurt 'em?" queried Takum.

"No," replied Montcalm.

"So you never do nothin' to 'em?" said Takum.

"Oh, yes!" said Montcalm, "we do something to them."

"An' what do you do?" asked Philetus.

"Shoot them," answered Montcalm.

"I thought you said you never hurt 'em," said Takum
in a disappointed tone.

"Neither do we. We kill them so quick it does not
hurt them," gently replied Montcalm,

"Oh, I wouldn't tell nobody," said Takum earnestly.
"I've hooked more chickens'n anybody in this hull
country, an' I never told anybody but you.

At Takum's house Montcalm struck across the fields
and was soon by Ratke's barns. In the shadow of the
largest he paused and deliberated whether it were not
better to leave the neighborhood. He knew that pursuit
must have been organized for his capture. It was also
possible that he had been recognized by Wingscheut,
Sparks or the mysterious stranger whom he had rescued.
Moreover, he had reason to fear the instability of
Philetus. But Philetus might prove a better confidant than
helper, especially after being impressed with the certainty
of punishment for the first breach of confidence.

Montcalm decided to remain. He hesitated to leave
her for whose approval, though it could not be gained, no
sacrifice would have been too great. He told himself
that, had she given him the least encouragement, he would
have averted the misfortunes which were gathering about
her and her relatives. He was tired of the life he was
leading, with its trickery and deceit, its wronging of honest
men. He would lay his plans, and at a few successful
moves gather in the money which would enable him to
live at peace with all mankind.

Strangely he felt the force of those words which that
Sabbath night Manie had spoken to him concerning
Ahab and the Syrian. He had made the covenant with
Ben-hadad, but his Ramoth Gilead had not yet come.
And would it come? With that apprehension by which
the guilty spirit alone is haunted, he looked about him.
In the peaceful air, undisturbed by a sound harsher than
the note of the whip-poor-will, was no warning. The only
foreign element in the quiet which reigned about the
place was the turbulence which agitated the mind of one
man.

The night was now well advanced. Some stars which
had by the marauders been used as landmarks or timepieces,
had changed their places or disappeared. The Pleiades
had descended to the westward. The great dipper had
lowered its handle until it appeared to be a receptacle
toward which were falling myriads of glittering drops.
Taking his way through the spruce, Montcalm raised his
window and clambered in.
