CHAPTER IX.
HOW THE AFFAIR ENDED.

The deliberations of the committee lasted several
hours. Ratke convinced his associates that the horses
were hidden in the swamp, and that, consequently, the roads
surrounding that portion near which the animals disappeared
should be watched. The supervision of these
roads, which had an extent of eight miles, was divided
between the five members of the committee. Each member
was to find enough men systematically to guard the
part apportioned him.

Montcalm cleverly secured the division extending
eastward from Takum's. He also obtained permission of
the major to engage his hands. Avoiding Sheppard and
Wrengell, he secured the services of Daggett, Brown,
Thompson, and that still more valuable acquisition, Archer,
whom he promised some blankets and cigars and instructed
to pass the night as comfortably as possible.

In some bushes near the road Montcalm left the
blankets which he had promised Archer. At Break o'Day
he hired two topers whom he found in Dr. Rorus' drugstore.

Jimmy Martin and old John Davis, the men whom he
engaged, were chronic inebriates. They were harmless
as doves, but not wise as serpents. They worked much
of the time by the day, and money they valued solely as a
means by which liquor was obtained. They accepted the
offer of the committee-man, because it necessitated no
hard work and because it promised better remuneration
than common labor.

Montcalm knew that criticism would be made on his
action in engaging such inefficient sentinels, but he was
in a desperate strait which required the use of desperate
expedients. It was possible for him in a measure to avert
suspicion. In the presence of three listeners he refused
their request to be supplied with whisky, saying that they
must remain sober during the night. Moreover, he told
them that, if they took a drop of the beverage with them,
he should secure other help.

At dusk he posted his guards. Commencing at the
point where his division joined that of Ratke, he placed
his men in the order named: Martin, Davis, Archer,
Takum, Thompson, Brown, Daggett.

These were, as he afterward claimed, all the sentinels
whom he could procure, Archer's position was near a
creek, the laggard waters of which were moving toward
the first of a chain of lakes connected with the Huron
River, Near him and leading toward the highway was an
old road which had been used in the transportation of poles
from the interior of the swamp.

"Here," said Montcalm, drawing the blankets from
some alder bushes where they were concealed, "you
will have a comfortable time."

"I hope so," said Archer. "Planting corn is hard work
when you drive it."

"If you hear any disturbance," ordered Montcalm, "you
call me. You need not stay on your feet continually.
Once an hour, or once every two hours, you can go to the
bridge and back. But do not let any one know that you
are favoring your legs in the least."

"No, I won't," assured Archer. "Folks don't seem to
realize that a laboring man gets tired. You spoke something
about some cigars, Mr. Montcalm,"

"So I did," said Montcalm, handing him a half-dozen
of the desired gifts, which had a superior flavor to which
Archer was unaccustomed. "I must go and look to
Takum. Do you think he will do his duty?"

"Well, I don't know," replied Archer. "The trouble
with Phleet Takum is, he's lazy. He'll never set the
North River afire."

"How are you feeling?" asked Montcalm, as he joined
Takum.

"Not very bumkum," answered the subordinate. "I
was nigh scart to death las' night, I thought they was
a-comin' right into the house an' goin' to drag me out.
They'd hang a feller sure if they got their claws on him."

"You are right," said Montcalm. "But they will not
get their claws on us."

"How be we goin' to help ourselves?" queried Takum.
"They'll hunt the swamp to-morrer, and they'll have
them horses as sure as preachin'."

"We will look to that," said Montcalm,

"I know what we can do," said Philetus. "You an'
me can take 'em out up toward Will Archer. He'll be to
sleep in an hour, an' thunder an' lightin' won't wake him.
He's too lazy to stand for a sign-post."

"We will let them stay for the present," replied Montcalm.
"I want you to do an errand for me."

"'Tain't far to go, is it ?" asked Philetus. "Ever
since las' night I've been afraid o' my shadder."

"Up past Wallace's," said Montcalm, taking two quart
bottles from his pocket. "Carry these bottles under your
jacket, just as you did the chicken. Give one of them to
Davis and one to Martin. But do not say that I sent them.
Make them believe that you came without my knowledge,
and that I would not like it if I knew it. Be particular
about this."

"Yes," assented Philetus. "But what are you goin' to
do with the horses? They'll find them to-morrer as sure as
preachin'."

"The first thing to be done," said Montcalm, "is to go
with the whisky bottles. You must do exactly as I tell
you now. I was patient with you last night, but I will
stand no more such work. I want you to go there and
get back as soon as you can. Remember, this is no time
to steal chickens."

"I ain't had no hankerin' to since las' night," responded
I Takum gloomily. "Gosh all Friday! I wish I was out o'
this. It seems to me I'd git them horses away."

"You recollect that I often had to warn you about talking
too much," said Montcalm. "Do what I tell you and
no more. Go with the bottles, come back and stay here."

"Yes," answered Philetus, "they won't nobody hear a
yip out o' me, only Jimmy an' ole John an' you."

After satisfying himself that his threats and the fear of
popular vengeance had impressed Takum with the
necessity of caution, Montcalm went to his post, which
was east of the swamp.  He held a short conversation with
each of several neighbors who passed him. Leaning over
the broken-down gate in front of the unattractive house,
he talked a few minutes with Wallace, who complained of
the rough treatment which he had received from the band
in pursuit of the horse-thieves. The hour of eleven was
approaching when he proceeded toward the sentinels
whom he had placed at the extremity of his division.
Old John was standing in an attitude of meditation by the
fence, with his hands grasping the top rail and his body
unsteadily waving about. Unconscious that he was
watched, he staggered to a jug and emptied a quart of
liquid, a part into his throat, a greater portion down his
shirt collar. With more volume than melody floated a
song from Jimmy Martin, which showed that Philetus had
faithfully performed his errand. Montcalm on his return
stopped at Wallace's house and knocked. There was no
light inside, but the door shortly opened and he was
admitted.

"I was tired and I went to bed," said Wallace. "I'll
light the lamp. Ab, get up."

The cord bedstead in the chamber groaned, and in a
few minutes Ab appeared.

"We'll take a turn at seven up," said Wallace. "Draw
up your chair, Montcalm."

"Count me in, too. Pa," said a large, rawboned, masculine
looking girl, whose freckled face pushed through the
opening door of an adjoining bedroom.

"Jule," exclaimed Wallace, "who told you to get up? "

"I told myself," replied Julia. "If there's any fun, I'll
have my share, and don't you forget it."

"Those windows ought to be darkened," remarked
Montcalm. "If I should be seen here, I might be
accused of neglecting my duty."

"Here, you, Ab," exclaimed Julia, grabbing her brother
by the shoulders and jerking him backward from his chair,
"run upstairs and get a quilt."

"Don't be too smart, Jule," warned Wallace. "You
may get set back a peg. That girl's a trump," he said to
Montcalm, as Julia disappeared in another room. "I
wish Ab was like her. If she was a boy, they'd have to
stand 'round for her. She and Ab don't always agree.
They fight like cats and dogs, and Jule is about enough
for him."

"Now, Ab," whispered Julia, meeting that individual in
his descent from the stairs, "don't you take that old quilt
in there for Mr. Montcalm to see. It ain't fit. You get
the cat's-paw."

"I don't know nothin' about any cat's-paw," said Ab,
aloud. "You can't make any cat's-paw of me."

"Hatefulness," replied Julia, giving him a push and
running up the stairs.

Julia brought down the cat's-paw and lugged out the
best quilt from the spare bedroom. These she put over
the windows, and at Montcalm's suggestion looked about
for something to fill the keyhole of the back-door. Passing
by carpet rags and old clothing, she went to her box
of choicest finery, and from it selected a red ribbon which
she stuffed into the keyhole, taking pains to leave an end
of it hanging down for her visitor's inspection.

"You and me can beat pa and Ab at seven-up. Can't
we, Mr. Montcalm?" she said, smoothing the pendent
strip of silk.

"They was rough on us last night," said Wallace, shuffling
the cards with dexterity." It beat all how they tore
around. They marked the house all up with rocks, and
turned the horses loose, and run the buggy out. They
hit one of the wheels against something and cracked two
of the spokes, and maybe three. It's a good thing they
went just as they did. If they hadn't, one of them would
have got a lead pill."

"Ab," cried Julia, "quit looking over my hand, or your
ears'Il catch a warmin'."

"Shut up," growled Wallace, his looks betraying an
admiration which the severity of his language did not imply.
"That's a girl such as you don't often see, Montcalm.
She's helped Ab an' me a good deal. She's worked out for
almost every one. She understands about the houses and
barns and horses, and how late the folks say up. That
comes real handy."

"You bet I can help," put in the masculine Julia. "If
anybody where I worked got up to watch pa and Ab, I'd
rattle things around in the house so they could hear.
Clubs is trumps, Trace. Ab, you look out or you'll get
your chops slapped."

"You have engaged in a very profitable business, Mr.
Wallace," said Montcalm.

"You can't tell me anything about the business," said
Wallace." The time I went on the raid over in Eaton I
just got away with my life. They caught the horse and
just missed me. The first thing after I go into it again,
my house is stoned and my property destroyed. Oh, I've
had experience enough."

"This venture is likely to be more profitable," asserted
Montcalm. "You have already received twenty dollars."

"I've earned it too," replied Wallace. "Hacking away
at them tamaracks and wading out to get to 'em ain't any
fun. I noticed you didn't do much of it. It was small
pay I got."

"It was better than raising wheat at a dollar a bushel,"
said Montcalm.

"No one but fools will grow wheat," returned Wallace.
"I can get it easier from barns than from the ground. I
won't have my ribs smashed by plow-handles to raise
provender for some bloated bondholder. The capitalists
have got it all their own way, and they wouldn't give a
cent to keep us from standing to death. The laboring
man has got to look out for himself. The rich ones
won't look out for him. You can take five bushels of
wheat from three or four bins, and it won't be noticed,
but when you take a horse, there's an everlasting
pow-wow."

"You can get your provisions that way," said Montcalm,
"but you will want money for other things."

"Yes, Pa," cried Julia. "And I want some dresses
and rings, and you promised me a breastpin."

"Oh, yes, you want," grumbled Wallace --- "you want a
good deal, but you won't get it. Montcalm, hadn't you
better pay me for them jugs of cider that you had me
take to Jimmy and old John? That's worth thirty cents
a gallon -- sixty cents."

"All right," answered Montcalm, as he felt in his pocket
for some silver. "It is right that you should have it."

Presently Montcalm arose and stated his intention to
leave.

"Not yet," said Julia, "not till you play another game
of euchre. Pa and Ab are ahead of us now,"

"It is impossible for me to stay longer," replied Montcalm.

"Now, we'll see," said Julia. "If I don't let you go, it
ain't impossible."

"You must excuse me this time," said Montcalm.

"No, you don't," cried the unfeminine Julia, making a
spring toward him and throwing her arms about him as he
moved to the door.

"Smack him, Jule," said Wallace, and the daughter
obeyed.

Montcalm, feeling very foolish and thinking that for
once his flattery had brought him not the most pleasant
results, writhed from her grasp and fled from tlie house.

"You'll come again, will you?" demanded Julia.

"Yes, I certainly shall," answered Montcalm.

"When?" asked Julia --- "next Sunday night? "

"I cannot promise," said Montcalm. "I will come as
soon as possible."

"If you don't come then, there'll be a racket," said
Julia; and with this warning she shut the door.

"That'll make a fine woman for somebody," said 
Wallace. "Wouldn't she be the boss for a night-raider?"

"Perhaps," said Montcalm, "if he wished to get married.
Ab, go up and see how Jimmy and old John get
along, while I take a turn through the swamp."

Montcalm, as he had expected, found Archer wrapped
in the shelter of some bushes, oblivious to hi
surroundings. His visit to Takum convinced him that he need
have no fears concerning the faithfulness of that subordinate.

"Oh, Mr. Montcalm," whispered Philetus, "I ought to
tell you somethin'. Will you be mad if I talk?"

By no means," answered Montcalm. "Talk on. Phleet."

"There's some one a-gittin' ready to muckle us," said
Philetus. "I heard 'em a-talkin' together down yonder,
an' they went in the tamaracks."

"I will go and see," said Montcalm.

His trip was far from satisfactory. There remained not
one of the hired men who had been stationed along the
road. He refrained from relating his discovery to the
Wallaces, who, he feared, might be intimidated by the
revelation.

"They're as quiet as they can be," remarked Ab, as the
three men met." That whisky and cider together laid
'em right out."

"We must hurry," said Montcalm." We have no time
to lose."

They took an angling course toward the swamp. When
they reached the tamaracks they commenced to remove
the sharpened trees in the manner which had so surprised
Philetus. This road was shorter than the one which led
to the hiding-place of the animals from the opposite side.
It extended to an open strip, in the center of which ran
the creek, whose banks were overflowed. A distance below
was a boat which reached nearly across the stream.
The men got into the boat. Montcalm pushed once with
the paddle, and they stopped on the opposite shore.
Twenty minutes later and they were untying the stolen
Billy and Madge T.

The horses, apparently willing to leave the loneliness of
their retreat for a common equine habitation, gave little
trouble until they came to the creek, where they snorted
and stood with their feet braced, yielding only to the 
persuasion of some long whips.

 The creek crossed, they were led out, both at once, by
the three men. Wallace suggested that Ab should
rearrange the newly cut path while he and Montcalm
attended to the stolen beasts, but the more prudent
superior would not consider the proposition. With his own
hands he replaced most of the trees and moved others
which the Wallaces did not place to suit him. He scat-
tered brush and fallen trees plentifully along the route,
not, he said, so much for the purpose of covering the
signs of travel as of inducing the searchers to keep away
from the disguised road by going around the obstacles.

"Maybe you're in love with this work, but I ain't," said
Wallace, as, after leaving the tamaracks, he was tramping
through the water, which reached above his boot tops.
"This is fun. I suppose about to-morrow night the
crowd'll come along and tear down my bam and burn my
shanty over my head."

"We have no expectation of getting caught," replied
Montcalm, expressing a confidence which he did not feel.
"We had better go as silently as we can. Probably we
and the guards are the only ones in the neighborhood
who are astir, but it is best to use caution."

Had Montcalm acquainted the Wallaces with the facts
communicated by Takum he might have been in his 
extremity deserted by his help, whose selfishness would
have allowed no consideration for him to endanger their safety
or that of their property. For this reason he encouraged
them and quieted their fears, using tactics exactly opposite
to those which he employed in the management of
Philetus.

"Ah," said Wallace, when they had arrived at his barn,
"go in and get that crank on the girt."

Ab soon returned, bringing a crank and an iron bar to
which was attached a short chain. Wallace took the bar
and inserted one end of it in a comer of the barn, while
the other protruded through a post which was set near.
In front of the barn was a long stack of hay, which ap-
peared to rest on the ground. Montcalm in the mean time
had laid down some straight, smoothly hewn rails, thus
forming a tramway between the post and the end of the
stack. Raising some locks of the dried marsh grass, he
fastened an end of a short rope to either side of a car
which supported the stack. Then he joined the short
ropes to a longer one, which he connected with the chain
by a hook, and next he set the crank on an iron bar.
Montcalm and Wallace turned the handle of this 
contrivance, when the stack trundled slowly forward and
stopped within a few feet of the post.

"There," said Wallace. "That's all I'll turn. I won't
break my back over a crank."

The removal of the stack exposed to view a pit which
had been dug underneath the barn. So carefully
performed had been the work of excavation that, when the
entrance of the cellar was covered by the hay, its existence
would not have been suspected by one unacquainted with
the secret; and neither about the barnyard nor in sight
of it was visible a trace of the dirt, the transfer of which
must have occupied some weeks.

"That work was well done," observed Montcalm.

"Thanks and compliments is cheap," answered Wallace.
"I wish I had what pay I ought to have. I'll never work
so cheap again."

The horses did not fancy entering the underground
stable. The colt hung back, braced his feet, and was
induced to go in only by the use of the whip, or as Wallace
termed it, "the persuader."

The stack was pushed to its first position without the
help of a lever, as the ground ascended toward the post.

"You had better get into the house," observed Montcalm.
"You may be seen by some prowlers."

Montcalm visited the drunken guards from Break o'Day.
He shook them, broke their bottles and jugs and
complained bitterly of their neglect. While he was still
shaking and lecturing Martin, he heard a long-drawn yell,
which, as he instantly surmised, proceeded from Archer.
With many misgivings he sped toward the spot from which
the disturbance issued. Justice was on his track.
Takum's only guaranty of trustworthiness was his fear;
Wallace cared for self alone, and here was a new trouble,
which he could barely locate, much less define. In front
of Wallace's barn he met Archer, who was much excited.

"They've gone," said Archer. "They've got away with
the horses."

"How do you know?" asked Montcalm, with an apprehension
which he succeeded in hiding.

"Because I saw 'em," replied Archer," and I thought
I'd come up here and tell you."

Montcalm soon decided on his course of action. He
would tell the Wallaces of Archer's disclosure, and prepare,
when necessity demanded, to flee from the danger which
menaced him.

"Where did the horses go?" he inquired.

"Up the road," answered Archer.
"Up the road!" ejaculated Montcalm in astonishment.
"Yes," said Archer, "they come out of the old road in
the swamp where they used to haul fence-posts through."

Montcalm, relieved, though perplexed, left Archer on
his beat and went to the station of Philetus, which was
deserted. He called loudly, but two or three minutes
elapsed before a faint response came from the swamp.
Making his way through the tamaracks, which at that
point were large and comparatively far apart, he found
Takum, who was coming to meet him.

"Oh, Mr. Montcalm!" exclaimed Philetus, "somebody
got 'em and' they'll find us! We're gone up! Great
Augustus! I'm a goin' to Californy!"

"We are all right," consoled Montcalm. "Did you
not expect that I would get the horses? If I had not
taken them from the swamp, we would surely have
been found out."

"Was that all?" said Philetus. "I heard somebody
acomin' through that road, an' I thought they'd found
the horses. They raised a great hellaballoo an' run
up this way. I didn't think you'd make such a noise,
but it ain't none o' my bisness, an' I won't talk about it."

"Get back to your post," said Montcalm. "You must
let no one suspect that you were frightened."

In the road Montcalm discovered the horses' tracks,
and, following them along the highway, which was quite
deserted, he ascertained to his surprise that they led
to Ratke's barns.

As he was passing the club-house on the way to the
family dwelling, his attention was arrested by the sound
of voices and laughter, and as he stopped, he overheard
the words of Daggett, who was saying:

"Didn't we have a time of it waking him, though? I 
poked him with a pole two minutes before he give a
grunt. But he flew around lively enough after he did
get up."

By nine o'clock in the forenoon a body of men and boys,
to the number of two hundred, had assembled at Ratke's.
Carrying a variety of arms, including, rifles, shotguns,
revolvers, rusty swords and muskets with bayonets attached,
they proceeded in a body to the swamp, where they
separated in order to facilitate their search.

The old men stayed on the hard land, while the younger
portion of the crowd, among which were a few boys, struck
out boldly for the tamaracks. But their ardor, as well as
their persons, was dampened by the water, which for the
greater part of the year encircled the great swamp, and
against which, at that time, the highest rubber boots were
an imperfect protection. The water poured over the 
boottops of the men. The brush scratched the bare legs of
the boys, who had rolled up their trousers. All were
annoyed by the bushes, which in many places were so thick
that vision was limited to a distance of a few feet. One
by one, wet, tired and discouraged, the searchers returned
to the up-land, asserting that a horse would not venture
where they had been, and that no one but old Ratke would
have imagined the thing. With their zeal for the capture
of the thieves considerably lessened, they returned to their
homes, disgusted with their own folly in being drawn into
any scheme projected by the inventor of the New Jerusalem.

Jimmy Martin and old John Davis boasted of how they
secured the liquor in spite of Montcalm's precautions.
This was an incident of the hunt at which the people
laughed heartily, and Montcalm was glad to be subjected
to ridicule instead of suspicion.
