CHAPTER XI.
THE ROOT OF AN EVIL.

The summer was remarkably hot. July had arrived. The
great swamp which, except in August, was usually too wet
for a well-clad traveler to pass through with dry feet,
was almost ungirded of its water-belt.

Ratke and his sister were preparing to start for Sharptown.
The preceding sentence should be amended by the addition
that Mrs. Grippin was actively flying about, while the
major was conning a treatise of Lord Shaftesbury's.

"I'd like to know where you got the money to pay Green?",
said the housekeeper. "You hadn't ought to be afraid of
me. I'm not going to tattle about it. You've got secret
all to once, haven't you?"

"I believe in maintaining silence when the occasion demands
it," replied the major, " and it does in the present
instance."

"I don't care so much who you got the money of," said Mrs.
Grippin, "as what you had to do to get it. You said you
couldn't find it, and you'd hunted all over, and you didn't
tell me any different till the other day. I'm afraid you
had to do something desperate."

I found the money to pay Green," said Ratke. "Further than
that I can tell you nothing."

"James Ratke," said Mrs. Grippin, breaking into tears, "I
have slaved for you half life. I have looked to your
interests when you were careless of them. I have cooked for
your hired men and scrubbed floors till I have nearly broken
myself down. Look at my hands, James Ratke! They have been
crooked doing your washing and mending. I never wanted any
pay. I only wanted to know that you was getting along, and
that I could have a place to stay when I was so old I couldn't
work. And now, when the home is going, you won't even tell
me how long before I am turned out into the streets."

"We will not believe that we are going to lose the place,"
returned the major soothingly. "An honorable man holds
the claim against it. I did not mean to hurt your feelings,
Maria, or to manifest a lack of confidence in you. I
appreciate what you have done for me and I mean to repay
you, as far as I can, by making you comfortable in your
old age."

It was seldom that Mrs. Grippin was absent from the
farm. This rare occurrence was welcomed with rapture
by more than one whom it concerned. Archer was at
liberty to help himself to bread and butter, whenever he
chose. Brown and Thompson could have each two pieces
of pie without encountering a savage glance which
destroyed their appetites. Nora sat by Montcalm and talked
and laughed with him in a way which would have shocked
her proper aunt had that lady been present.

"Come in this way. Trace," she cried, rushing to the
parlor. "It's cool in here. Oh my! isn't this a nice
place? I'll shut the door," she said as Montcalm entered.
"Then they can't hear what we say. Oh, Trace,
we haven't had a chance to talk alone for a good while.
Aunt Maria does watch us so close. I'm glad she's gone.
It's the day Uncle James promised to pay Uncle Si, and
he's gone after the money. I tell you it's a lot of it. It's
over $14,000."

"I should think Mr. Green would be afraid to have
such a sum brought to his house," said Montcalm, "seeing
that there are thieves about."

"He had to have it brought here," explained Nora.
"It was to be paid in this house, and then he takes a good
deal of pains not to be robbed. He has the strongest
locks on his house, a lock on every door and a burglar
alarm besides."

"That is caution itself," said Montcalm. "It is not
often that a house has a lock on every door. Generally
some of them are bolted."

"Oh, yes," said Nora, "that is the way with Uncle Si's.
He fastens the cellar door with a hook. I remember
hooking that when I was a little girl. Then the hook was
higher than my head. Now it comes up just to my shoulders."

"You have forgotten," said Montcalm. "It lacks a trifle of
being as high as your shoulder."

"What do you know about it?" asked Nora. "You never were
there."

I know by intuition," said Montcalm. "Second sight, perhaps
you would call it."

"Oh, bother your second sight," returned Nora. "Don't try
to fool me in that way. Are you going away before long?"

"Perhaps," answered Montcalm. "I have thought of telling
the major that I can work for him no longer."

"And you'll send for me, as you said you would, when you
get the store started." So saying, Nora sat in his lap and
gave his collar a playful shake.

Montcalm looked down pityingly into her face. He had 
not at first meant to win her affections. Feeling his
power, he had determined to test it, and its exercise
had made her his slave. The lies which he had told her
were for the purpose of giving her temporary satisfaction,
but they had doubled the difficulty in disentangling
himself without giving her the pain which he dreaded
to inflict.

"Do not count too much on the store," said Montcalm.
"I am not now in the best of circumstances, and it may
be years before I can start in business."

"Why!" exclaimed Nora, a disappointed look creeping
across her face, "didn't you mean what you said?"

"Oh, yes," answered Montcalm, as he felt unable to
use the candor with which he had resolved to speak,
"we will go just as we have intended. But be patient."

"It wouldn't need so much to start a store in a little
village like Break o'Day," said Nora. "You say you've
got a few hundred. So have I. I've got one uncle and
an aunt that's well off. Right here are two checks,
Trace, " she said, coming from her bedroom with some
papers. "They are for $500. Take them now. I won't
want them. Aunt Emma gave me one and Uncle Si the
other. You see I can help, and I feel just like
helping to get along." 

"No, no," expostulated Montcalm, thoroughly despising
his own deceit. "I will not. I hope myself to earn the
money soon."

"Oh, yes, take them," urged Nora. "It don't make any
difference to me who has them, only I want to show you
that I won't be a hindrance to you."

"No, you will not," said Montcalm sorrowfully. "Keep
your money, Nora. By and by we can share our property
equally. But wait until we are married."

At the sound of the last word Nora's face lighted up,
and she pressed closer to him.

"When will that be. Trace?" she inquired. "We have
talked about it, but we have never set the time. Once in"
a while I think it never will be."

"We must not be impatient," replied Montcalm. "It
may be a year or two before I am ready to marry. If the
delay interferes with your happiness, I will release you
from your promise."

"You are tired of me," said Nora, her voice betraying
her disappointment. "I was afraid you would be. But I
won't beg for your favor if I die. I'll keep away from
you, and I won't bother you any more."

"What is my little girl thinking of?" asked the
miserable Montcalm, drawing her back to him. "Does she
imagine I am tired of her because I will not take her
money? I could not do that, Nora. I would hate myself
for such an act. We can wait awhile. Neither of us are
old. I will prepare a home for you, and then I want you.
We will be happy then."

"Oh, I hear Aunt Maria talking in the dining-room!"
exclaimed Nora. "She mustn't suspect that we've been
in here together. Quick, Trace, slip right out of this door.
I'll toss your hat out of the kitchen."

"You go in, Major," said Montcalm, as he neared
Ratke. "I will care for the team."

"You may if you like," answered the major. "I am
very hungry."

Mrs. Grippin suspected that many misdemeanors had
been committed during her absence. Nora should have
been taking care of the dishes instead of sitting in the parlor.
The men had not scraped their feet when they came into
the house, they had left the butter in bad shape, and some
of them had taken two pieces of pie.

"Don't be so long," said the housekeeper, as her
brother leisurely entered the house. "He'll be here in a
little while. You want to be ready to do business with
him when he comes."

"Precipitancy," replied the major, "is a common evil,
and I intend that it shall not ruin me. If you think twice
before you speak or act, you avoid many mistakes which
you would otherwise make."

"Yes," answered Mrs. Grippin, "but if you are always
thinking and never acting, it don't amount to much. I
wish you'd eat so I can get my work done up."

After dinner the major went to the bam to talk with
Montcalm.

"Come, Nora," said Mrs. Grippin. "Take hold and
clear up the table. You're not very tired. It don't
hurt you any more to work than it does me."

"Some one is at the door," said Manie.

"Come in," said the housekeeper, as she ushered their
expected guest into the parlor.

"Are the folks all well?" asked Green, with a degree of
politeness to which he was unaccustomed.

"Well enough," returned Mrs. Grippin shortly. "James
will be in in a few minutes. You can make yourself
comfortable until he comes."

Partly obeying the directions of the housekeeper. Green
sat down, but he did not make himself comfortable. He
arose to his feet, and strode about the room in an oval
circuit, unconsciously following the same path through
each evolution. When this became monotonous, he resumed
his seat and tapped the floor alternately with his
heel and his toe. As the major entered the apartment,
he wsa again walking the floor.

"Why, Uncle Si," said Nora, following closely after
Ratke, "you haven't been here in a long time. Why
don't you ever come around?"

"Oh, I don't get around to visit much," returned Green.
"I have a good deal to do."

"I should think you have a good deal to do," said
Nora. "You never go anywhere only on business. If I
was worth so much as you, I'd call around after my
friends. You don't have so much leisure as lots of poor
folks."

"That's what makes 'em poor," returned Green.
"They have too much leisure."

"How much do I owe you?" inquired Ratke, with a
mixture of dignity and civility.

"Fourteen thousand five hundred and forty-two dollars
and ninety-two cents," answered Green.

"You are mistaken," said Ratke. "The amount is
fourteen thousand five hundred and forty-two dollars
forty-one cents, four and sixty-three hundredths mills."

"There ain't any mistake on my side," returned Green.
"Collins is as good a lawyer as there is in Jackson, and
he figured it."

"Mr. Collins may be good authority," Ratke rejoined;
"but the figures are better, and I will show them to you."

"Oh, I'm satisfied with Collins's work," said Green.
"He's always done my business, and he's always straight."

"No doubt you are satisfied," responded the major,
"because his mistake, if sanctioned by me, would put a
half dollar in your pocket. I oppose it, not for the
half-dollar, but for the principle which is involved."

"I'll take my mortgage and go home," said Green.
"If I can't get what belongs to me in one way, I will in
another."

"Maria," called the major, "you and Manie come here.
Here," he continued, addressing Green, "in the presence
of three witnesses, I offer you fourteen thousand five
hundred forty-two dollars, forty-one cents, four and
sixty-three hundredths mills, or, on account of the
difficulty in making change, fourteen thousand five
hundred forty-two dollars and forty-two cents."

"What is this about?" inquired Mrs. Grippin, looking
in turn from Ratke to Green.

"He wants to cheat me out of fifty-one cents," replied
Green. "I tell him I'll take the mortgage and go home
first."

The money-lender shrank back as he saw the change in
the aspect of Mrs. Grippin. Her form straightened, her
upper lip rose with an expression of ferocity, her long
fingers gripped together like the talons ot a destructive
bird.

"You, Josiah Green!" she said slowly. "You talk of
cheating, you that never did anything but cheat!"

"Oh, Maria," expostulated the major, "remember he is
a guest in our house. We must not disgrace ourselves by
treating him with discourtesy."

"You can't run me, James Ratke," retorted the angry
woman, "if you do run the rest of the town. 'Tend to
your own business, and I'll 'tend to mine. You bought a
cow of him. Si Green, when you couldn't get trusted 
anywhere else. You got money to help you with the mortgage 
on your place, and you cheated him out of it. You got
wheat of him when your family was sick, and you said
they'd starve if they didn't have help. Do you remember
you came here and said you'd like to get a few pounds of
butter, and you'd pay for it the next week.' You've never
said a word to me about that butter from that day to this.
Now I want you to settle that account."

"I won't bother about the half dollar. Major," said
Green. "Have it as you want it."

"Very well," said Ratke, "here is the full amount."

"When do you intend to pay me for that butter?" asked
Mrs. Grippin, as Green was retreating to the road. "Si
Green, you get up in church and speak, and say you are
glad you chose the better way. What better way do you
mean.' A better way to smouse folks is the only way
you've chose since I've known you. That's all the lingo
you've got, and you can't make up another. I sit where I
can see you in meeting. If you don't pay me for that
butter, I'll look you right in the face as you speak. Then
say you've chose the better way if you can."

"How much is it?" asked Green, turning suddenly
about.

"There was four pounds and a half of the butter,"
answered Mrs. Grippin, "and it was twenty cents a pound.
That would he ninety cents. I'll call it six shillings."

"Here," said Green feeling that he deserved credit for
generosity, "here is a dollar. That makes us square."

Fearing that Mrs. Grippin would make another demand,
the penurious farmer hastened to the road, untied his
horse by a few quick, nervous jerks and drove rapidly
away.

Ten minutes afterward, in response to the call of a
neighbor, Ratke went out to the gate and received a
letter, the body of which, written by Durgenson, is
subjoined:

"I dislike to speak about the sum I lent you. but the
trouble is I am hard-pushed. I have got to have $4,000
the 24th of this month. After that I will get along two
or three hears without any more. Have it ready for me
the afternoon of the 23rd, when I will come to your
house."
