CHAPTER XII.
THE WELL WITH A BARREL CURB.

Again at the dead of night Montcalm climbed from his
bedroom window. Carrying a large bundle, he passed
down the shaded walk and was soon on the route
previously traversed by him and Takum. The sheep in
the woods fled, as before, at his approach.

He came presently to a pond the dimensions of which
had manifestly shrunk during the hot weather, for a dry,
barren circle marked where its edge had been. He untied
his bundle, spread its contents on the ground and threw
off his coat and vest, for which he substituted a thick,
padded jacket which gave him a robust appearance.
When to this disguise he added a mask from which
straggled a sandy beard, no one would have recognized in
the ruffianly looking figure the genteel Montcalm.

In the capacious hollow of an oak the adventurer stored
the clothing which he had removed, and with his lightened
bundle again proceeded on his way. Ere he reached the
lane which led to the barns of Green, he deviated from his
former route. Turning to the right, he emerged from the
wood exactly in front of, though at a considerable distance
from, the church. In a few minutes he was stalking along
the edge of the graveyard, and a brief walk took him
to a large wood pile which was close to the house of the
money-lender.

The premises had an aspect, not of thriftlessness, but
of carelessness for everything unconnected with finance.
The barns which sheltered the stock were well and neatly
built. The house which harbored the family was paintless
and old, the clapboards were loose, and some of the bricks
had fallen from one chimney. It consisted of an upright
and a long, low wing which lapped beyond the taller part
of the dwelling. Montcalm was before the overlapping
part and close to the outside cellar stairs. On the 
backstoop were a swill-barrel, three swill-pails, some
hoes and rakes and a rickety table made of a long box,
on which sat pans and kettles. Whatever was useful merely
in pleasing the eye or fancy was unnoticed by Green.
Whatever added to his wealth received from him studious
attention.

Montcalm went down the cellar stairs, which were in
front of the stoop. His mask and padded jacket, annoying
incumbrances in midsummer, he stripped off; and
taking an auger from his bundle, he commenced to bore
a hole in the cellar door, basing his calculations on the
account which Nora had given him of its fastening. The
noise, which he subdued as much as he could, might easily
have been mistaken for the gnawing of a rat. He pushed
through the orifice a wire instrument, and lifted a hook
from the corresponding socket in which it rested. The
door, which opened outwardly, he blocked with a stone,
lest it should swing back and cause a strain on some
attachment which he had not yet discovered. He bored a
second and a third hole and cut out the spaces which 
intervened between them. Feeling through the passage
thus formed, his hand came in contact with a string which
he dared not critically examine. By means of the auger and
a sharp knife he further enlarged the aperture until he
could push through it his right arm and the fingers of his
left hand, when, pulling the string tightly from him, he
severed it with his knife and immediately after entered the
cellar. An investigation showed the wisdom of his
precautions. The string was connected with a burglar-alarm,
which, if pulled, would have produced an explosion and
might have brought ruin upon his enterprise, perhaps
discovery to the intruder. Montcalm closed the door and
lighted a small lantern. Boards which supported milkpans
were suspended from the floor above. In a remote
corner of the cellar were some shelves which were in the
course of erection. A broad-ax, a saw and some short
boards which had been cut from the ends of the longer
ones were on the upper of these shelves. Montcalm's
curiosity was excited by a barrel, an end of which a few
feet from the milk-shelves protruded some inches above
the surface of the ground. On examination it was found 
to be the curbing of a well. When Green was poor, his
ideas of economy told him that he could dig a well with
less labor from the bottom of the pit under his house
than from the surface of the ground; and, as he 
prospered, he provided water for his horses and cattle
at the barn, but that necessity of his family was still
carried from the cellar.

Montcalm donned his mask and padded jacket, and again
his exterior coincided with the nature of his errand.
A second flight of stairs led to the upper rooms, and
up these Montcalm passed, bearing his lanter. He stopped
in front of a door, which he pushed gently back and
forth. He knew it was possible that this door, too, was
connected with a burglar-alarm, but he did not think it
probable, as an intruder could reach it only by passing
through another, for security of which greater than
ordinary precautions had been used.

Gradually the door-bolt was worked from its socket, and
Montcalm stepped into a small closet, from which he
emerged into a larger room. Noiselessly going into the
kitchen, he heard the light breathing of Green and his
wife in their bedroom which was, he concluded, fastened
against intrusion. Retreating to and through the closet,
he travered the room above the cellar and came to a
flight of stairs, up which he climed. One of the boards,
as he steppedon it, gave a warning creak, and he lifted
from it his foot and set it on the next stair.

Two bedrooms were partitioned from the main part of the
chamber. In one of these on the floor was a springbed on
which was a lying a man. As the man was long and the
tick was short, about twenty inches of uncovered feet
and legs were hanging over the bare springs. Beyond the
legs were the lean body, the flaxen hair and weak,
expressionless face of William Henry Harrison.

As Moncalm by one of his long legs pulled him crosswise
of the bed, the half-wit excaimed, "Oh, Misser
Green, 'tain't mornin' yet!"

"'Tain't Misser Green," said Montcalm, "but it's some
one that wants to see Misser Green. Tell him to come
up here."

Such was William Henry Harrison's terror at the rude
awakening that he could only stare at the figure, whose
broad shoulders and straggling sandy beard looked
particularly savage in the light of the lantern.

"Call Green up here," said Montcalm.

"Oh, no," answered William Henry Harrison, "I no
call, I feel sick."

"You must do as I tell you. Have him come up
here."

"No. He want to sleep. He git mad."

"And I'll get mad if you don't call him," said Montcalm.
"Tell him to come quick."

"He whip me," objected William Henry Harrison.
"Take a big strap. Maybe he kick."

"Are you going to do as I want you to?" asked
Montcalm, shaking him violently.

"Misser Green," called William Henry Harrison.
"Misser Green, come up here!"

"Call him again," ordered Montcalm, after he had
waited to no purpose for a response.

"Oh, Misser Green, Misser Green, come up here quick!"

"Keep still there, William Henry Harrison," shouted
Green.

"Tell him you are sick," commanded Montcalm.

"Come up here," William Henry Harrison called. "I
sick."

"Get well then," was Green's answer. "I guess you
ain't in much danger. I want to go to sleep."

"Tell him you are awful sick," said Montcalm.

"Oh, Misser Green," wailed the fearful half-wit, "I
awful sick, I goin' to die."

"You'll die if you don't shut up," replied Green. "I'll
come up there and drive you through the floor. Now you
keep still, I don't want to be awake all night."

"Tell him you are going to have a fit," was Montcalm's
next order, "Tell him you know it."

"Oh, Misser Green, I goin' to have a fit. I tell. I feel
it. Oh, come up now!"

"I'll give you a fit if I come up there," yelled Green,
thoroughly exasperated, "Now don't let me hear another
word out of you to-night."

"Tell him you are going to have a hard fit," said Montcalm.

"Oh, no. He come up. He whip."

"Say it quick," ordered Moncalm.

"He say he kill me."

"And I'll kill you if you don't."

"Oh, don't kill. Hurt. Make blood. Aweful."

"Then," said Moncalm, "tell him you are going to have a fit,
and you know you are going to break things."

"Oh, Misser Green," cried the half-wit in desperation,
"I goin' to have awful fit. I break window. I break bed.
I break house."

Montcalm emphasized the appeal by knocking out some
pane of glass, which went ringing below to the cellar wall
and stairs. He also jerked the bed, breaking a crosspiece,
and struck the wall so violently that a yard of loose
plaster fell from the ceiling to the floor. Then he closed
his dark lantern.

"What's that full up to?" exclaimed Green, jumping out
of bed and hastily putting on his trousers. "I'd rather
have a man of sense around and pay him wages that to
bother with an idiot. I'll be right after you, young man!"
he threatened as he proceeded toward the chamber.
"I'll thrash you with an inch of your life! You won't
be having any more fits or fussing for one while. What
is this?" he demanded, as his bare foot struck the plaster
which had fallen in the main part of the chamber. "What
fool's caper is this?"

He started suddendly backward as Montcalm, stepping 
from the door of the bedroom, presented a pistol at his
head.

"Tell me where your money is," said the unwelcome
visitor. "I can't stay here long because my wife expects
me home."

"What money?" asked Green.

"The money you got to-day," replied Montcalm, assuming
a tone which corresponded with his rough garb. "You
can't fool me. I know you've got it."

"It's gone," said Green.

"You lie," said Montcalm, cluching him by the throat.
"Let me know where it is, or I'll blow your brains out."

"It is gone," Green affirmed," that is, the most of it.
I took it over to Sharptown, and I got back just at dark.
I've got two thousand dollars that I saved out for Osborne.
You can ask Jane and she'll tell you the same."

"Show me the two thousand then," said Montcalm, as
he pushed the slide to his lantern," and don't you dare
hang back, or play me any tricks. Here, you fellow on
the bed, you lie where you are till I come back. And
don't you stir. I'll lay this quilt over your legs, just in
this way, and I can tell if it is moved. If I find a wrinkle
of it changed, I'll shoot you when I come back."

So saying, Montcalm adjusted the quilt and followed
Green, who in silence led the way to the cellar. As they
were leaving the small closet, Montcalm's foot
accidentally hit a pair of rubber boots, which went
tumbling down the stairs.

"There it is," said Green, as he pointed to the cellar
wall. "It's behind that stone. You couldn't tell it's
loose, but it is. You'll find it all in a long pocket-book."

"I rather you'd get it," replied Montcalm, following him
to see that nothing of value was left In the hiding-place.

The loose stone was near the unfinished milk-shelves
and to reach it the men were obliged to step over a long
board which lay across some saw-horses. Montcalm depos-
ited his lantern on the board and vigilantly watched the
execution of his order. Reluctantly stepping over another
saw-horse and removing the stone from the mortar,
which at first sight appeared to be solid. Green drew out
a long pocket-book and handed it to Montcalm. They
again stepped over the saw-horse, and Montcalm, opening
the pocket-book, examined its contents. Green saw passing
from him part of the riches the slave of which he had
been and still was. For it he had plowed, sown and
reaped, had taken the poor man's dollar and the widow's
mite, had repeatedly outraged his conscience.

Catching a loose slab, he dealt a sudden blow on the
head to Montcalm, who, staggering back, caught his legs
on the saw-horse and fell. Green followed his advantage. 
He struck again with the slab, barely missing his aim;
but as his weapon was clutched by the unknown burglar,
he precipitated himself upon him. Montcalm whose
movements were impeded by his thick jacket, succeeded
in twisting from underneath his antagonist and regaining
his feet. His mask, which had become unfastened, hung
loose about his neck; and Green partly unnerved him by
giving a yell of recognition and pressing with renewed
vigor to the attack. Having a poor hold of his opponent,
and being in every way at a disadvantage, he felt his
strength begin to fail. As he was crowded close to the
wall, his hand accidentally came in contact with the 
broad-ax. In despair he seized it and struck. The weapon
seemed hardly to touch the man on whom it was turned,
yet that touch was sufficient to send him toppling over,
extinguishing the lantern in his fall.

The cellar was in almost total darkness. The scanty
light which came through the small windows, of which one
was on the north side and one on the west, was lessened
by screens and thick masses of overhanging vines, 
Montcalm threw aside the ax, groped hurriedly and found the
pocket-book, with the intention of escaping before Green
arose. But, as the seconds passed and there was no
perceptible movement on the part of his late adversary, he
felt that he need not anticipate immediate pursuit. He
wondered that the stroke, which had but grazed the head
of his opponent, should produce unconsciousness. An 
unconquerable desire seized him to learn what had been
the result of the blow which he had delivered. The
knowledge, however, could be at once gained only by an
investigation, and from that investigation he shrank.
While he was groping for his lantern, he heard a sound
which filled him with an indescribable dread. It was the
steady trickling of some liquid into the well. Never
before had he been so nervous. He drew from his pocket
a match, struck it against the wall, and dropped it ere his
purpose had been served. With trembling fingers he
took a second match and succeeded in igniting the wick
of the lantern.

The sudden transition from darkness to light at first
dazzled his eyes. He saw barrels, the unhewn wall, the
milk-shelves, and lastly a object which he had previously
overlooked. Green was lying nearly lengthwise of a
plank, which descended toward the well, and which had
one end resting on the curb and the other on an elevated
and hardened bed of water-lime. His head was on the
edge of the plank and nearest the well. A portion of the
trunk and one arm also was on this support, and the other
upper limb was beyond it, while the remaining parts of
the body rested on the ground. No wound was visible,
but from some source a small stream of blood was passing
down a depression in the center of the plank to the
well, where it caused that trickling which had so wrought
upon the nerves of Montcalm. The depredator, as he
turned over the prostrate form, dreaded what his action
might reveal, yet he was not prepared for such a spectacle
as met his gaze. The upper portion of the right side of the
forehead, including the skull and a thin section of brain,
had been cleft and now hung suspended by a piece of
skin. Laid bare by that destructive blow, the cerebrum
showed its peculiar formation, though the convolutions of
its exterior were partly disorganized by the leveling of the
ridges. Much of the gray matter had been shaved from
the surface of the cut, or crowded into the irregular
furrows; so that, mingled with it, was the white from which
the power of transmitting nervous force had been suddenly
and unexpectedly wrested.

A chill passed over Montcalm, which was not wholly a
reaction from excessive heat generated by his physical
struggle. But a few minutes before, and that cloven skull
on which he was gazing had been the habitation of a living
intellect, that amorphous mass of brain had been performing
its normal functions; along those disfigured ridges
had been passing thoughts, which, perhaps, related to self
and self-aggrandizement, but which were those of a 
fellow-being. What though the reflections had been of a mean
and penurious character? What though they had been on
money and usury, on the oppression of the poor? The
interruption of their existence was no human right, and
woe to him by whom they were destroyed. Montcalm
could scarcely believe that the pasty substance which
riveted his attention was not even then the nursery of plans
for revenge upon him, that sight had fled from the eyes,
that the open mouth was not about to denounce him for
his crime. The monotonous trickling into the well prolonged
the spell which bound him, as a sameness of sound,
by holding the external perceptives, sometimes prevents
warning of the approach of deceit and prepares the way
for the capture of the reflective faculties.

With an effort he turned from the senseless body and
started toward the outside door. As he did so, he
stumbled over one of the rubber boots which he had
knocked down in his descent to the cellar, and which had
probably been long thrown aside by William Henry Harrison,
for they were large and full of holes. It was instinct,
instead of deliberative caution, which prompted him to
draw on the boots and walk several times across a strip
of sand, thus making it apparent that the murderer was a
large man, or at least had large feet. The skilled
depredator, who had mastered the details of his profession,
and who habitually had them in readiness for his use, was
actually passing from the scene of the murder, leaving
behind him the lantern and the burglar tools, when he heard
Mrs. Green call anxiously to her husband. That cry in
a measure loosed him from his lethargy of mind. Gathering
up his shoes, the tools and the lantern, he emerged
from the cellar, and walking around to the front of the
house, proceeded an eighth of a mile up the soft road to
the southward, after which he continued his way on the
grass. Then he climbed into a meadow lying between
him and the wood which he had traversed in his approach
to the house. A large, low stump was in his path, and
on it he seated himself with no concern as to the
advisability of his action.

This was, indeed, strange conduct for one whose interest
it unmistakably was to flee from a neighborhood which
might at any moment become dangerous. Possibly the
sound of pursuit might have roused him, might have led
him to take measures for his safety; but it did not come,
and listless and dejected, he kept his seat.

The intervention of the barns kept him from seeing the
house, in which and in whose occupants alone he was
interested. Crossing the lane and reaching the spot where
he had made his exit from the wood, he was able to view
Green's dwelling. A light was in the bedroom in which
had slept the late master of the house.

It soon passed from Montcalm's sight and reappeared
from a window of the upright. Again it was lost to his
view, and again it was visible as it entered the chamber
and shone from the room of William Henry Harrison. It
was plain that Mrs. Green was making a search for her
husband, and probable that she would not abandon it
until she found him in the cellar. Montcalm had no
curiosity or inclination longer to stay so near the place
where he had committed his felonious deed. So, picking
up his bundle, which, as may be supposed, was indifferently
arranged, he trudged slowly through the forest. And
now, for the first time, he experienced a fear, which
approached certainty, that his guilt would be detected.
It was not the abject terror of the coward. It was the 
conviction of a brave man who was willing to struggle
when there was hope, but who believed that he was
menaced by odds which it was useless to resist.

By the edge of the pond he halted. His mind, in that
condition of vacillation which follows a severe shock to
conscience, had veered from indifference, or rather stupor,
to despairing expectation. In an indecisive conflict reason
and imagination contended as to whether the monotonous
night sounds were common and natural occurrences,
or the ominous portents of coming evil. To him the
croaking of the frogs, the low groaning and high wailing
utterances of which came incessantly from the pond,
seemed to be an arraignment against which he could made
no defense.

He removed his outer garments and put on in their
places those which he had stored in the oak. There was
no concealment which he considered safe for the
appliances of burglary and the evidences of murder. Every
location which he thought of had its disadvantages. The
open fields were being plowed and cultivated, the woods
were rambled through by hunters from Sharptown and
Oakville, the swamp was nearly dry and was daily visited
by berrying parties. Bringing his irresolution to an end, he
put them all, the tools, disguise and clothing, including the
lubber boots and his shoes, inside the tree. He placed his
hand to his forehead. The touch was disagreeably harsh,
for his palm was coated with dried and stiffened blood.

Passing over the verdueless circle to the deep hole where
the remant of the pond remained, Moncalm thrust his
hand into the water, that the congealed life fluid might
be soaked and detatched. He applied also some of the
roiled liquid to his forehead, forgetting that little more
than a stone's-throw from him was a clear spring.

As he left the pond, he reflected on the change which
the night's events had wraought in is prospects. he had
meant to abandon evil. While he was in his career of
theiving and swindling, he had marked out his intended
course. He would first accumulate a competence. Then
he would marry some virtuous girl, between whom and
himself existed a strong affection, and he would live a
life of morality, even religion. Vanished was that dream
of happiness. Judicious and good courtship requires
serenity. How could he talk the language of love with such
a secret weighing upon him, when every instant there
posed before him a vision with cloven forehead and protruding
brain? He had been engaged in wholesale trickery
and theft, but blood he had avoided. And now it had
smeared his clothing, his hands and, worst of all, his
memory. An itching sensation was between the fingers of
his right hand. Mechanically feeling with his left, he
found a snake-like body, an extremity of which was
imbeaded in the skin. With a jump he threw from him a
leech which must havve become attached as he bathed in
the pond. It was fully a minute before he realized by how
trivial an object he had been frightened. Again he
encountered the sheep, and again they fled before him. The
act to which he had previously given no significance he
now interpreted as an indication that the very brutes
avoided his presence.
