CHAPTER XIII.
"A DANIEL COME TO JUDGMENT."

Ratke and Montcalm attended the inquest over the body
of Josiah Green. Men were standing on the shady side
of the house, on the two porches, and strolling about the
yard. Justice Sparks had ordered the outside cellar door
to be closed, that the body might not be tampered with
before the official examination. The cellar would still
have been easy of access had not Sparks nailed a board
over the hole which had been cut by Montcalm, and which
might have admitted a hand to lift the fastening hook.

"How do you do, Major?" said a large, slightly corpulent
man, with long chin whiskers, a rumbling voice and a breath
which was tainted with whiskey.

"How do you do, Dr. Rorus?" responded Ratke.

"This is a sad affair," observed the doctor, "a lamentable
happening, a bad job. Terrible, terrible terrible," and
Dr. Rorus raised his eyes aloft. "A man, a fellow-being,
struck down, cut off in the very noontide, or, as you might
say, meridian of vigor." At this point the physician took
an uncertain step and waved his fist in the air.

The major, whose own pomposity of language was unconsciously
caricatured by Dr. Rorus, did not fancy listening 
to the drunken harangue, but he was obliged either
to tolerate it or to beat a retreat. His friends had noticed
that immediately after he had met the doctor he was less
pedantic in his conversation, and his philosophical and
historical allusions were less frequent.

"Have they found any trace of the assassin?" asked
the major.

"Strong evidence," responded the doctor, "very strong.
There was a conspiracy. The victim was called up in
the middle of the night and was never seen alive again.
He was called by a certain individual that I won't name
now."

"They will not convict William Henry Harrison on
such proof," said Ratke. "I hope they have stronger
evidence than that."

"The murderer," said Rorus with his customary
redundancy, "the homicide, the execrable monster, the
villain will be punished and put in prison and made to
suffer. With whom is he dealing? With you? No.
With me? No. With a weak man? No. With that
mighty aggregation, that great mass of power, the
commonwealth and the State of Michigan. Oh, the people of
Michigan are a wonderful people. They have developed
and grown up to greatness. Plenty of hardship, plenty of
enemies to fight. There is, or was when they grew up,
the Indian, the bear, the wolf, the panther and the hard
winters and--poverty and--hard labor, terrible hard
and--the fever and--ague, the rattlesnake and--hardship.
The Michigan boy has the enterprise. You can't beat
him. Best in the world."

"Where is Sparks?" asked Ratke. "I would like to
see him."

"Can't say," said the doctor. "Where there's a slight
breeze, there's a cause for it. Where there's a big wind,
there's a good deal more. Evidence must have, has got
to have, facts behind it."

"I understand," said the major. "We will talk this
over some other time."

"There is no denying the fact. Major," declared Rorus,
detaining Ratke by clutching his sleeve. "Brace against
it and it will push you back. Try to shove it along and
it will kick. I will give my drug-store, and my practice,
and my diploma to any scholar, or set of scholars, who
will disprove what I say, or demonstrate that it isn't so,
either one, mind you, either one. There is a chance for
somebody, a big chance."

"Precisely," acknowledged the major, glancing uneasily
about, but disliking rudely to leave his tiresome
companion.

"I claim," said Rorus, "I assert positively, without a
tinge of doubt,there was no profit in that deed, that
atrocity, as you might term it if you was disposed to give it
a hard name. Oh, I don't believe in being mealy-mouthed
with these rascals. In the first place there was no profit
to the killer, the murderer I mean, to be more explicit.
He will go to some saloon, and he'll drink. Then he'll
gamble, and he'll lose what he's got, and he'll fight. And
of course, as he's drunk, he'll get whipped and get a black
eye. So you will admit. Major, there is no profit in a
black eye. I claim, and I defy any man to prove to the
contrary, aye, I challenge the world, there was no profit
in it to Green. If there was, where was it? There was
the house broken into. There was the $2,000 gone."

"Exactly," remarked the major with a sigh.

"Morality pays," pursued the doctor. "That is the
teaching of the greatest philosophers, and thinkers, and
orators, and smart men of the present day, and of the
past, and that ever lived, of Aristotle, and Epictetus, and
Bacon, and Socrates, and Pluto. Oh, that Pluto was a
wonderful man. His philosophy is mild--and gentle--and
beneficent and pleasant."

"If ever you fall into his dominion," observed Ratke,
"you will find it not a pleasant one."

At this juncture, to the major's joy, he was approached
by Sparks and informed that his testimony would be required,
and that the jury, the witnesses and the officers of
the inquest were to go through the house and view the
cellar before the outside door was opened for the
admission of the crowd. Sparks carried a lighted lamp in
order to help their observations.

"Here are his tracks plain enough," said Holmes.
"He wore rubber boots."

"I tracked him down south in the sand as much as
forty rods," said the sheriff, whose unpretentious manner
up to this time had concealed his interest in the tragedy.
"Then he went to one side. There was a ways where the
grass looked as if it had been disturbed. After that I
couldn't follow him at all."

"It's queer he should go in the sand," commented the
prosecuting attorney, a sleek young man who had red
cheeks which were evidently made so by dissipation.
"He ought to know he could be followed there."

"Murderers don't think of such things," said the sheriff.
"They're generally in a hurry. It's some little thing that
they forget that gets them caught. I wonder what size
those rubber boots were. We can measure the tracks.
Who's got a rule?"

The cellar door was now opened, and those who were
waiting entered. The jury with Rorus surrounded the
body and drew from it the sheet by which it had been
covered.

With a copy of the statutes in his hand Sparks
administered the oath to the six jurors.

"Here is what done it," said the justice, picking up the
broad-ax after he had performed the official duty just
mentioned.

"Terrible blow," ejaculated Dr. Rorus, "terrible.
Crashed through the cuticle, the cutis, the frontal bone,
the parietal bone, the arachnoid, the dura mater, the pia
mater and the cerebrum. Intelligence, in a moment,
in a second, in a half of a second, or less, for it was done
instantly, destroyed, stopped, or, more properly, used
up. Did you ever think what a slippery thing mind is.
Major? Intangible, incomprehensible. You can't get at
it. You want to put it under a microscope, but it isn't
there. You grab for it, but it gets away. Whenever
you put your hand on it, it slips out just like a greased
pig."

So eager were the spectators to view the proceedings of
the inquest that they seriously embarrassed the jurors in
their deliberations and crowded them almost upon the
body of Green. The annoyance at last aroused the displeasure
of Sparks, who ordered two constables to clear a
larger place for the accommodation of the court. The retreat
was slow, like all forced backward movements of a
crowd. Those who were behind had no inclination to
move farther away from the object of interest, and those
who were in front were by them prevented from doing so.
Finally motion was imparted to the sluggish mass, which,
reaching beyond the door, settled back with the rearward
part resisting the retrogression. One of the lookers-on, who
struggled most obstinately against yielding his position,
was crowded toward the door; his heels struck the barrel
which served as a curb, and he was precipitated to a sitting
posture. Unfortunately for him he was a lean man,
so very lean, that, doubled up as he was, he shot inside of
the barrel, where, helpless and clamorous, he remained
with his chin barely above water and the soles of his feet
and the top of his head forming equally elevated slopes.
The excited throng pressed about him and drove him farther
into the well, but he was finally rescued, and the
investigation proceeded.

When the dead body had been critically examined, it
was wrapped in the sheet and removed to the ground
floor. Sparks led the way to the room directly above the
cellar, where the testimony was to be taken.

"Gentlemen," said Sparks, "we've met to-day to do our
duty, and that's what everybody orto be willin' to do.
One of our neighbors has been slayed almost before our
eyes. Now we want to find out who done it, and what he
done it for. Folks'll expect it of us, consequently that's
what we orto do."

Sparks now proceeded to the examination of witnesses.
Dr. Rorus gave straggling testimony relating to the organs
affected by the wound, to the time and to the immediate
cause of death. It was to no purpose that the sheriff and
the prosecuting attorney bade him confine his attention to
necessary facts.

Ratke was the next witness to be called. The preceding
day he had paid Green fourteen thousand five hundred
forty-two dollars and forty-two cents. All except the
forty-two cents was in paper. He had given paper because
it was the cheaper currency and it was what he had
borrowed. After he had paid him, Green drove toward
home, and that was the last time he had seen him alive.
When asked by the prosecuting attorney whether there
had been any ill-feeling between him and the deceased, he
admitted that there had been. When questioned as to its
nature, he said substantially that, as his neighbor was dead,
he could not with propriety explain their trouble. He
was liable to prejudice. The account which he would furnish
might be biased. A counter-statement from the other
party, therefore, would be necessary to give the jury a
correct idea of the circumstances. That statement it was
impossible to obtain. He, consequently, must be silent
respecting their relations. He could only inform them
that, however intense or unjust his animosity, it never would
have prompted him to injure in person, reputation or
finance the victim of the recent tragedy.

Mrs, Green was nearly overcome by grief, and the jury
allowed her to tell her story without being subjected to
many questions. She was quite deaf. She had been
awakened by her husband in the night. Green said
William Henry Harrison wanted him to come upstairs,
and she, herself, could hear the calls, though she could not
understand them. From her husband she learned their
import. William Henry Harrison said that he was sick.
Then he said that he was very sick and that he was going
to die. Next he said that he was going to have a fit and that
he would break the house. He broke the bed, knocked
out some window lights and jarred loose a lot of plaster.
Green at last went up to see what was the matter. She
waited for him a long time, but he did not come. After
a while she became alarmed and ascended to the chamber.
William Henry Harrison acted strangely. She asked him
where her husband was, but he returned an answer so low
that she could not hear him. She thought it was a whisper.
She insisted that he should speak, and he was still
obstinate. She tried to pull him from bed, but she
was not strong enough. Then she endeavored to haul the
clothes from him. At that he resisted and even acted
mad. She never saw him so violent before. Whenever
she moved the quilt which was over him, he carefully
replaced it again. He would fold it and put it over his legs,
and she saw him arrange it so that a wrinkle would run
across the center. As she continued her attempts to
arouse him, he grew frantic, and she was afraid longer to
stay by him. After hunting through the house she went
down cellar and found her husband. She could not tell
what she did during the next few minutes, but she was
sure she did not touch the body. When she recovered
from the shock sufficiently to think and act, she proceeded
to Mr. Holmes's house and awakened him. He, with
another neighbor whom he aroused, came home with her,
and watched in the cellar until morning.

"The next witness I shall perceed to call," said the
justice, "is William Henry Harrison Hibbard."

Gently pushed forward by several men, William Henry
Harrison took the chair.

Sparks gravely looked down at the law-book and
repeated these words: "William Henry Harrison Hibbard,
you do solemnly swear that the evidence you shall give to
this inquest concernin' the death of the person here
lyin' dead shall be the truth, the whole truth and nothin'
but the truth."

The half-wit stared stupidly at the justice, but made no
reply.

"The court is waitin'," observed Sparks. "We want
you to speak up."

Still the witness did not answer.

"We're in a hurry," said Sparks. "Do you swear it,
I say?"

"No," replied William Henry Harrison.

"What!" ejaculated Sparks, "you won't tell us? Now
I ask you again. Do you swear to tell the truth?"

"No," said William Henry Harrison, "I no swear.
Wicked, awful."

"We do not want you to swear or say anything bad,"
said the major. "We want to know if you will tell the
truth."

"Yes," was the response. "I no lie."

"Now, William Henry Harrison Hibbard," Sparks
began, "we want you to tell us somethin' about the
murder. Some think you know more about it than you
care to tell. They kind o' think you know who it was
that hit 'im."

William Henry Harrison's terror of the preceding night
was revived. He remembered the dark-lantern, the hideous
face which had peered into his, the great shadow
which had been thrown on the ceiling and the threats
which the ferocious intruder had uttered. He drew down
his head and shoulders and cast an uneasy glance toward
the door which led to the cellar.

"I want to ask you, William Henry Harrison," said
Sparks, "what did you do as you did for? What did you
want to call Mr. Green up there for when you knowed
somebody was a-waitin' to kill 'im? There was nothin'
fair about that. It wa'n't as you'd like to be done by.
Answer me now. What did you want to do it for?"

Poor William Henry Harrison, incapable of defense,
could only stare in mute appeal.

"If you don't answer me," threatened Sparks, "I shall
take legal perceedin's agin you. What did you want to
do it for?"

"I dono," responded the half-wit.

"Yes, you do know, too," persisted Sparks. "If you
called him up there, you know what you called him for,
You orto be ashamed o' yourself, a-doin' like that. There
he'd fed you an' kept you an' give you your clothes, an'
you had to up an' play that mean trick on 'im,"

"Young man," said Dr. Rorus, in his most resonant
bass, "do you realize the position you are taking?"

The prosecuting attorney here objected to Rorus's
questioning the witness.

"Do you know," persisted the drunken doctor, ignoring
the objection, "that you are in insurrection against,
aye, assaulting the statutes of the Peninsular State?
For, when you stand in the way of justice, you are
assailing the whole. Do you think the people will stand
that? Why, my dear sir, you never heard the motto of Michigan,
did you? It is 'Tuebor'--I will defend her. And, when
the young men of Michigan say, 'I will defend her,' they
mean it. They are ready to fight for her liberty and her
rights and her civilization. At the first menace they would
crowd up by the dozens and the hundreds and the thousands
and the millions. Now answer instantly."

The frightened witness slid to the side of his chair as
far from his interlocutor as he could get without leaving
or moving his seat. The prosecuting attorney again
protested that Rorus had no right to question the witness.

"Rules are for use, sir," said the doctor--"for use when
they're needed. We don't need that rule now. Young
man," he continued, addressing William Henry Harrison,
"you are liable to be arrested for conspiracy, to be put
in Jackson inside of stone walls, and have men ready to
shoot you if you try to run away. I will have a man
come for you now. Your honor, send a constable for
him."

"Rorus," interrupted the major, "you are drunk or you
are a fool. Your honor, if you will allow me to question
the witness, I think I can extract the information you
want. Now, William Henry Harrison," he said, turning
to the half-wit, "I will let none of them hurt you. I will
keep them off. You like tobacco, don't you?"

"No like now. No like nothin' now."

"But you will like it when we go away," said Ratke
kindly, "Jim, let me lake your tobacco box."

The young fellow who at the hunt after the horse
thieves had been conspicuous in the white hat handed
Ratke his tobacco box. William Henry Harrison, whose
scanty supply of tobacco had been partly stolen from
Green and partly bought by pennies which he had
accumulated, took the box and hesitated.

"You had better take it," said Ratke. "You may not
have another chance to get tobacco."

Thus urged, the half-wit transferred the tobacco to his
pocket.

"If you will answer a few questions," said the major,
"you can leave us and be away from these men. Then,
when I go to Break o'Day, I will buy you a pound of
tobacco. Now, I would like to, know if any one came to
your room last night."

The allusion to the circumstances by which the half-wit
had been so frightened again made him incapable of
utterance. His terrified looks and shrinking posture
indicated that he would give no evidence.

"Oh, you aught not to be afraid," said Ratke, "I
won't let anybody touch you. What kind of looking man
was he?"

"He big. He awful."

"There," exclaimed Sparks, "now we've got a clue.
If you can git him to tell who he looks like. Major, it'll be
a big point."

"Holmes," said the major, "hand me your tobacco
box. Have a chew, William Henry Harrison. Did the
man have whiskers?"

"Yes," responded William Henry Harrison. "He
have whissers, just like Misser Sparks."

This unexpected reply drew the general attention to
the justice and brought a flush to the judicial countenance.

"Tell me what he did," said Ratke.

"No," said William Harrison. "He say he kill when I
tell."

"Let him come," said Ratke assuringly. "I will give
him the hardest thrashing he ever got. You don't think
he will hurt you when I am here, do you?"

"No, I 'fraid of no one when you here. He come when
you go 'way. Come when nobody here. Night. He
shoot, kill, hurt, make blood."

"How do you know he will hurt you?" asked the
major.
	s
"He say so. He come las' night. He pull my legs.
He say I call Misser Green. I say I no like call Misser
Green. He git mad. Then he say he hurt I no call
Misser Green. He shake me. I call Misser Green.
Misser Green git mad. Man he make me say I sick, I
have fit. I break things. Misser Green he git mad.
He come up. Man he lay quilt on my legs. He say I
move quilt he kill me. Man he scare Misser Green.
Misser Green he go with man. Miss Green she come up.
She pull quilt. I 'fraid man come. I pull. I 'fraid
now"

"That will do, William Henry Harrison," said the
major. "You have been a good witness. You must admit,
Rorus, that he has told a not improbable story. It is not
strange that he should be compelled to do as he did by
the assassin, who was certain that the course Which he
adopted would bring Mr. Green to the chamber. Besides,
William Henry Harrison is not capable of inventing
the account which he gave."

"We've heerd all the testimony we can git at," said
Sparks, "that is, so far as we know. Now, honorable
jury, I want you to decide this question. An', while
you're about it, git it right if you can. This lookin' a
thing over an' then gittin' it wrong after you've had the
fussin', I don't think much of."

The clerk, with the help of Dr. Rorus, prepared the
inquisition, to which the jury subscribed. The document
stated that "The said Josiah Green came to his death between
the hours of one and two o'clock, on the second
day of July, 187--, in the cellar of his own house, by means
of a broad-ax, in the hands of a person or of persons
unknown, and that the immediate cause of death was
cerebral hemorrhage inducing paralysis of the nerve
centers, asphyxia, cerevuesisms and coma."

Mrs. Green's neighbors eradicated the traces of the
murder from the cellar. The broad-ax they gave to
Sparks. Back of the barn they carried the plank, with its
discoloring stripe of dark red. They dipped dry the
well, the water of which was bloody and loathsome as that
of the Egyptian streams over which Aaron's rod was
stretched. It could never again be used, for though it
would once more be clear, the sickening thought of the
tragedy which had given it that crimson tinge would
appall him who should presume to drink from it. William
Henry Harrison was obliged to carry the family supply of
water from the barn until another well could be dug.

"Trace," observed the major, after they had passed the
church on their return to the farm, "you remind me more
and more of your father. When there was a general
struggle to obtain a petty object, he never joined the
rabble. He was willing that others should go before him.
At Green's you sacrificed your curiosity to the curiosity of
others. You might have crowded up and viewed the body,
but you did not. I do not believe you went into the
cellar to-day."
