CHAPTER XV.
IVANHOE CRITICISED BY A MASTER

To the delight of the farmers there were indications of
rain. Across the sky was drawn a curtain of cloud, which
was uniform in appearance, except where it was slightly
varied in shade by different degrees of density. From it
fell a fine mist, which was welcomed as the harbinger of
plentiful showers. Ratke's hands were gathered in the
club-house, for the major would allow neither man nor
beast to work in the storm on his premises.

Wingscheut, who that day was out of employment,
joined his former fellow laborers for a visit.

"Helloa!" exclaimed Thompson, approaching John,
who was seated in the chamber. "What book you
got?"

"Ivanhoe," replied John. "Did you ever read it?"

"Yes," returned Thompson, "that is, part of it, but I
didn't go much on it. I couldn't make no sense out o'the
thing."

"Tell me about it," said John.

"Oh, there ain't much to tell," said Thompson. "It
don't amount to nothin'. There was this Iverhoe, he was
a slow ole genius, took him all day to do a little bit, then
there was a templar. He was black, a Nigger or an
Injun, I don't know which. Then there was a maiden,
an' the'd rip an' tear around after her to beat all. They
had the funniest way o'fightin' you ever heerd of. They
had spears, just like fish spears, only they didn't have but
one tine. They couldn't do nothin' till they took them
spears and got their horses to goin' lickety-larrup. But
I've got the dandy book.

"What is the name of it?" asked John.

"'One-eyed Zeke,'" replied Thompson. "This Zeke, he
was death on the Injuns. He'd make game of all of 'em
he got in sight of. He'd shoot off his rifle, an'
then he'd take a revolver in each hand. There wa'n't
nothin' he couldn't do. One time they got 'im, but he
let 'em. They'd been a-wantin' to git a steamboat on the
river; so Zeke he run her to shore and pertended to be
a-snoozin'. The Injuns, Ihey come an' catched 'im and
tied 'im, but they couldn't run the boat; so they had to
let Zeke loose. Zeke, he told 'em to keep stuffin' in the
wood an' a-stuffin' it in. Byme by he thought 'twas time
to skip, an' so he dropped in the water. Then the biler
busted an'blowed 'em all up, all but Zeke. Oh, that Zeke,
he was a tearer! He'd killed more'n forty while this
'ere Iverhoe was a-gittin' his spear ready."

Unable to pursue his reading in quiet, John descended
to the ground floor. The outside door opened and in
walked Panicky.

"Here you are again," said Daggett, "You're just the
man I want to see."

"I like to come where I'm wanted," replied Panicky,
taking from his shoulder the strap to which his satchels
were slung. "There's once in a while a place where they
don't appreciate me. But that's what a benefactor of his
race must expect. They're persecuted and cursed by the
ones they help the most. I'm nothing but a martyr. I'm
out in all kinds of weather to give people the benefit of
my medicine. It's my mission. You see the hump on
my shoulders. I made that carrying my satchels, trying
to benefit humanity. When I'm dead and gone, folks will
know what they've lost."

"We're partial to the martyrs," said Daggett. "It ain't
often we see a real one. Sometimes they come snides on
us, fix 'em up bogus, Like Barnum's mermaid. You come
just when you're needed, Panicky. We're all sick, and we
want some martyr to tone us up. Wingscheut here wants
a bottle of your panicky on his leg."

"No," objected Wingscheut. "it's a crowin'-out."

"What are you using on it?" inquired Panicky.

"Vell," answered Wingscheut, "tat's for you to fint out
if you can, I'll tell for fife tollars, unt you can sell it
to chust as many folks as you vant to."

"Got a touch of summer complaint, have you?" asked
Panicky, addressing Sheppard.

"Got nothin'," returned Jake. "I'm tough as a biled
owl."

"Bad spell for general debility," said Panicky to
Montcalm. "I see it's hit you bad."

"I am quite well," replied Montcalm. "If you think
you can beat me pitching hay we will try it when the sun
comes out."

"John," said Daggett, "get your fiddle and play us a
tune. I want to shake my feet."

John brought down a recently purchased violin and
played a lively air, to which Daggett beat an accompanying
tattoo with his feet.

"Now, I'll tell you what we'll do, Panicky," said
Daggett, "and that's the best offer we'll make, that is, I'll
go in for it if the rest of the boys will. If you'll step in
there and dance a jig, we'll buy a partnership bottle of
your panicky. What do you say, boys?"

Panicky objected, but Daggett assured him that he
could sell his medicine to them in no other way. Accordingly
the two stepped into the middle of the room and
began to dance a quickstep while John played. The
music was quickened. Daggett was the first who failed to
keep pace with the rapid notes. Panicky's superiority
over his rival was now unquestioned. His body was
nearly stationary, but his feet and legs twisted and turned
like those of a jumping-jack; and from underneath them
came a clatter which was almost like the rattle of a snare
drum. He would not have lagged behind the music had
its rate not been still further increased by John. As it
was, he missed a few steps, recommenced further on, and
at last, becoming hopelessly entangled, passed to the
outside of the circle.

"He's the best player I ever heard but one, and he was
a foreigner," said Panicky, after John had gone. "Do
you know where he come from?"

"He won't tell any one that," replied Daggett. "It's
queer, too. I never heard him speak of his folks or
where he's been before he come here."

That night John did his chores early. He was in the
parlor before dark, for there was a matter which he wished
to talk over with Manie. How strong were his hopes,
what an unwonted confidence he had in the future as he
entered the room and she greeted him with a smile.
Despite her kind welcome he dreaded to broach the subject
for which he had come. That which he had deemed
assured now appeared very doubtful, and his voice grew
so unsteady that he dared not ask his intended question.
Just as his timidity was getting under subjection, Ratke
opened the door and taking a seat beside him, began to
discuss moral theories, for which, in the absence of
Montcalm, he was anxious to find a listener. To the
major and his niece John threw his glances, hesitating
between a desire to please and to get rid of the
troublesome philosopher. Ratke, exhausting the first subject,
commenced another.

To one of the philosopher's questions which he had
imperfectly understood, John ventured an affirmative
answer.

"The same, then, you say," replied Ratke. "It is
called the identical wave, but I cannot understand its
right to claim identity, when it bears to it hardly a
resemblance. It has undergone each of the two changes
to which matter is subject. It is increased in size, and
altered in composition. A political movement begins.
Its authors die and are succeeded by leaders whose creeds
and practices are antagonistic to theirs. The founders
advocated thrift, economy, simplicity and progress; the
followers advocate useless offices, vast expenditures, pomp
and an adherence to methods the only recommendation
of which is that they were necessary in an emergency.
Patriotism and virtue have turned to self-interest and
corruption. Why should we call this miserable relic the
old party, when it has preserved its being neither in men
nor in principles, only in name? Answer me that, John."
"I see," said Ratke, "my words, sent to your brain
without making an impression, form a case of total
reflection. In the physical world this is possible only from
a highly burnished surface but it is not so in the mental.
The liability to total reflection increases as the square
root of the intellectual vigor decreases. No offense is
intended, John. Your age and the circumstances in which
you are placed make the rule not applicable to you. No
doubt you have heard enough about the wave and you
want now to see its posterior as it recedes."

With this good-natured conclusion the major rose and,
taking a book from the library, went to the dining-room,
where he was obliged to hear a harangue by Mrs. Grippin
on the scarcity of wood.

John had fancied that when his employer left, he would
have no difficulty in stating the nature of his errand; but
when he was alone with Miss Ratke, his old timidity returned.
He would have been able to perform his mission
at once had it not been for another request in reserve,
which he wished her not to suspect.

On this account he broached topics which were foreign
to the theme uppermost in his thoughts. Finally he delivered
this unscientific preliminary, "I am going to the
concert at Oakville to morrow night."

"I hope you will have a good time," said his companion.
"It is a local affair, I believe. Still, it will be
quite interesting. They, have some good singers there."

"I would like to have you go," said John, trying to
assume a careless manner. "Will you be at home to-morro
night?"

"Certainly not all the time if I go with you," responded
Miss Ratke, "and I believe I shall accept your invitation."

"Thank you," answered John, "I will call at about six."

"Very well," said Manie, "I promised Jennie Holmes
to come to her house to-night and I must be going."

John had performed his errand, yet he lingered at the
door feeling that he had something still to tell. At last
he said, "Good-bye."

"Good-bye," said Manie in surprise, "for how long?
Not quite a day."

"I hope not more than that," replied John. "But I
have found that my expectations are not to be depended
upon. That prospect on which I calculate most is apt to
be most completely dissipated."

He tried to keep warmth from his words and tones that
they might not betray his longing to indulge in passionate
utterance, utterance which, he thought, would warn
Manie of the depth of his feeling and banish him from
her beyond the possibility of a return. His whole being
fought against the restraint. He threw back at her another
look and saw a glance which appeared to contain
encouragement, but which he could not analyze with certainty.
An apprehension seized him that a golden opportunity
was passing away, but its place was taken by another that
speech would destroy a growing prospect. Their separation
promised to be short; and yet, as if he were about
to start on a long journey, he felt a desire to bid her a
second and different farewell.

Checking himself with the fear that he had already
said too much, he left her presence. The next night he
would stake his hopes on a revelation to Manie, which, if
all circumstances were considered, did not promise a
satisfactory result. He was not confident. He shut his eyes
to the consequences, while a dread of failure was using its
influence to dissuade him from his design.

In the backyard he met Montcalm, who thus addressed
him:

"There is a little matter I meant to have spoken to you
about before. Suppose we take a walk."

"I cannot now," responded John, "I have an engagement."

"Accommodate me as soon as you can, then," said
Montcalm.

"Any time to-morrow," replied John, hastening to the
club-house.

He stayed a few minutes in the chamber and, bringing
down his violin, was about to leave the building when
Daggett stopped him.

"What, John, you ain't going away?"

"I must," Wrengell replied.

"Oh, pshaw!" ejaculated Daggett, "that's just the way
when we need you. Well, go it. I don't blame you."

After Wrengell's departure, Montcalm entered the
clubhouse and asked concerning his whereabouts.

"He's gone," answered Archer, "took his fiddle and
gone."
