CHAPTER XVIII.
BREAK o'Day.

Break o'Day is one of the oldest villages in Jackson
County. It had its store and its school-house before the
first building was erected in Sharptown or Oakville. The
derivation of its name has been the subject of many
inquiries, which have been answered by local antiquarians.
The founders of the hamlet, like the majority of Michigan
pioneers, came from New York. Four families built
their houses neat together, that they might enjoy the
society of neighbors. Others followed from the Empire
State, and the neighborhood became thinly settled. They
had dwelt on the eastern hills, where, unobstructed, a view
extended for miles. They were now in the midst of woods,
where they could view no distant object unless it were
above the timber. Month after month they lived in this
manner, and daily the complaints grew louder. The
women, who had been accustomed to habits of thrift,
longed to see the sun rise once more. They declared it
was nothing but laziness which allowed them to be penned
up in that fashion, that if they were men, they would chop
out at least one place wide enough to give them a sight
through the forest. Urged on by their wives, the men
made a bee and hewed to the eastward a road through
which the earliest beams of the daily luminary might shine.
The next morning the entire population of the locality
gathered to witness the blaze of light which slowly
appeared above the long stretch of stumps. Shouts
resounded, guns were fired, a feast was spread, and the
place was promptly named Break o'Day.

The village never grew to the dimensions which were
anticipated for it by its first builders. Twenty years ago
its appearance was substantially as it is to-day. It was
built on five corners from which ran roads, one to each
cardinal point of the compass and one southeast to Sharptown.
The greater part of the buildings were on the triangle formed
by the eastern and south-eastern streets and
the cross street which connected them. These streets were
named in order, Warren, Jackson and Washington. On
Warren were the church and the school-house; on Jackson,
Birch and Bigney's store and the hotel; on Washington,
the hardware store and the blacksmith-shop. Marion,
running northward, could boast only of dwelling-houses.
The drugstore of Dr. Rorus was the one building of
importance on the west road, which, on account of its
shade trees, the villagers named Maple Street, but which the
farmers in derision called Scrub Avenue. This edifice
was painted yellow, had a high square front, a shed roof,
and bore the following inscription, "I. J. H. Rorus,
M. D., Physician and Surgeon."

On the morning which succeeded the night of John
Wrengell's sojourn in the swamp, Dr. Rorus opened his
drugstore in good season for the purpose of taking his
indispensable dram. The doctor had won the reputation
of being always drunk, and, intentionally or
unintentionally, he preserved his notoriety.

The streets were, as yet, traversed by few people.
Most of the inhabitants were eating breakfast. The
stores, however, were open, and from the blacksmith-shop
came the energetic clinking of a hammer.

Rorus went behind his counter and poured out a glass
of spirits, which he swallowed with relish. Repeating the
potations at frequent intervals, he managed to get himself
well under the influence of liquor.

His first caller was an agent who had lodged at the
hotel and who was canvassing for a paper which had
recently started in Oakville.

"Subscribe for a paper in Oakville?" said the doctor.
"No, sir, not if every bottle of ink and every sheet of
paper and every letter of type and every press were
concentrated in that nest of infamy, Oakville."

"I didn't know there was such a feeling here toward
Oakville," said the agent.

"Ah, sir," replied Rorus, "you talk of prejudice. Let
me recite facts to you and history, history that shall dispel
doubt 'like mists that rise before the sun.' Like the fogs
that roll upward from our noble swamp, or mosquitoes
that fly before--when there's a smudge. We helped
Oakville with her fair, and that was all right. This year we
wanted a celebration, and she said, 'We won't have any.'
We got up one, and what did Oakville do? She turned right
square around and got up too, and we couldn't get any
crowd. What did she do it for? For the money. For the
trade. Think of it, speculating on the Fourth of July. On
what day? Remember, no common day, but on that glorious,
that immortal, that never-to-be-forgotten day, when
American liberty reached its culmination, its pinnacle, its
apex, its--high as it could get. What do you think of that
recreant, that rascal who can on that day even think of, or
reach out his hand to clutch ten cents, or one dollar, or
ten dollars. And yet, I grieve to say that in this land,
consecrated to the rights of humanity, such men exist.
They are in Oakville. They live, they breathe, they taint
the pure air of freedom."

The drizzling rain of the preceding day had forced a
temporary suspension of haying, so that the store began
to be populated by loungers from the near farms as well
as from the village.

"Doctor," said a man, who carried a large black bottle,
"my wife is sick and I'd like to get some medicine."

"Very well," replied the doctor. "These men forget
who their fathers were. They are not like the citizens of
Break o'Day. Break o'Day remembers. Do you see
that street yonder? That is Warren, and Warren sleeps
on Bunker Hill."

"But, Doctor," urged the man with the bottle, "my
wife is bad off, and she's got to have some spirits."

"Yes, yes, just so," Rorus responded. "Do you see
the church? That is on Jackson Street. Break o'Day
remembers Old Hickory. Oh, he was the man for you!
Well, he was. Firm, immovable, rigid, had a backbone.
Right up yonder is Washington Street. Break o'Day
remembers the Father of his Country. Oh, that George
Washington, greatest man in all history, very greatest.
The French shot at him. The Indians shot at him. The
cold December and January and February (yes, at that's
the coldest of the whole), they nipped at his feet. But
did they hurt him ? No, sir."

"Doctor," protested the waiting customer, "my wife is
awful sick."

"I'll wait on you in just a minute," said the physician.

"Who would make a good correspondent for this
place?" inquired the Oakville agent, wishing to gain
information before Rorus recommenced his harangue.

"Well," answered the doctor, "there's Ned Sturgis
over in the post-office. He's a mighty smart fellow.
Posted right up to the handle. You couldn't do any better
than to get him. Then, there's my clerk, Fred Loomis,
he's a bright one. Smart as steel. You never noticed
him, did you? He'd pick up everything there was going.
Quick-witted, you know. Catches on to anything before
other folks have a glimpse of it. I wouldn't wonder if
he's the best one you'll run across, Ned Sturgis is good.
I sha'n't say which is the best. My clerk, though, he is
A number one. You don't know what the boy is till you
are acquainted with him. Now, I sha'n't say which is the
best. But, of the two, of the two, my clerk's a
le-etle--le-etle--I sha'n't draw any distinction."

"Doctor," said the impatient man, "If you can't wait
on me, I'm going over to Sullivan's. I know I can get it
there."

"Yes, immediately," replied the doctor. "You are sure
your wife is sick?"

"I should think so. She like to have died this morning,"

"I have to be particular," said Rorus; "I can't sell only
for medicinal purposes."

"Sullivan ain't so particular," said the customer.
"I can go there any time an' get all the whisky I
want."

"That is a disgrace to Break o'Day," commented the
doctor. "That reproach to society, that den of iniquity,
that abominable hole, should be closed up. To whom are
they selling? To the merchant, to the farmer, to the
clerk, to the business man, to the mechanic, to the laborer,
to the agriculturist, to--lots of 'em. And yet, Michigan,
mind you, no common State, but the Wolverine State, has
enacted a law that no intoxicating beverage shall be sold
except for medicinal purposes."

"Say, I'd like to see you a minute," remarked a man,
coming close to the physician.

"That you can," replied the doctor. "Right this
way."

"I've got the ague," said the man in a low tone, when
they had gone to the back of the store, "and I want
something to break it up. I'd like to get some quinine and
whisky."

"Good idea," assented Rorus. "Grand thing for ague,
this quinquina. I have it pure, too. I'll put them up
separately and let you mix them, eh?"

The next event was the arrival of Wingscheut with his
shambling limp.

"Helloa, Wingscheut," was the salutation of Jimmy
Martin. "Have you been hunting horse-thieves or bears
lately.? Set down and give us a story."

"No," sturdily replied the German, "I'fe cot to see te
toctor."

"Why," inquired Martin, "be you sick?"

"No," answered Wingscheut, "unt I ton't vant to pe
sick. Tat's te reason I see te toctor. I vass pit vith a
massauker 'unt I must have some visky."

"I want to speak a word with you," said a youth of
not more than twenty, after Wingscheut had obtained
his liquor.

"Come this way," said the doctor, going immediately
to his consultation room.

"I'm at work on a marsh where there's lots of
rattlesnakes," said the youth. "I'm afraid I'll be bit and
maybe not get help till it's too late. I wish you'd let me
have a pint of whisky."

"Can't do that," returned Rorus. "Can't do it
possibly. It's against the law."

"I know it," pleaded the youth, "but maybe I'll die
if you don't. You let the rest have it. I do my trading
here, that is, everything you keep. I'll have to go
somewhere else if you can't accommodate me a little."

"Human life," said the doctor, "must be preserved.
Laws are for humanity. Humanity first and laws afterward.
You can have it. But mind you don't lisp it outside
the store."

Wingscheut, wishing a change of society, wandered to
another part of the village.

Two men in an open buggy came driving rapidly from
the west. One of them tied the horse quickly, and they
entered the drugstore. The half-drunken crowd saw
nothing unusual in their haste, but Rorus, intoxicated as
he was, perceived that they had not the serenity of the
Break o'Day loungers.

"Well, Whipple," said the physician, "what's the
news up your way? Everything quiet, s'rene, like a
great ship sailing peacefully along with her sails
outspread to the breeze of heaven?"

"It ain't been very quiet," responded Whipple. "My
bay colt was stole last night, that I wouldn't have took
two hundred dollars for."

The loungers arose. Rorus advanced from behind the
counter. The stupor on the sottish faces gave place to
excitement as Whipple related how he had become
apprised of the theft.

"I've had him locked up in the barn nights ever since
last winter for fear he would be stole. Along the fore
part of the summer I slept in the barn. But lately I
hadn't heard so much about such business, so I got of
my guard. This morning I says to my hired man, 'Ben,
if your hand's sore, maybe I'd better milk and let you
tend to the horses.' 'All right,' says Ben, 'my hand is
purty sore to milk.' I went to the house and s'posed
everything was all right. After breakfast I says to Ben,
'Did you turn Jack out"' 'No,' says Ben, 'didn't
you?' 'No,' says I, 'I ain't been in the stable.'
'That's funny,' says Ben. 'It was unlocked.' We
went out there, and sure enough he was gone. And it's
just the same as the rest of 'em. We can't find his tracks.
Something ought to be done. We've stood this stealing
as long as we can. There's a whole gang of the thieves
around, and they ought to be broke up."

"I'd like to see one of 'em git caught," said the
flaxen-whiskered man, the same who the night of the hunt
had quarreled with Ratke over the proposed punishment of
the horse-thieves. "He'd be made short work of. The
hull country's worked up, and they'd string a man, too,
quick. What are you goin' to do about catchin' your colt?"

"I don't know what to do," replied Whipple. "I thought,
though, that I'd go around and inquire and have my
neighbors do the same. They've gone now from around
my way. I'll go over to my brother-in-law's Bill Briggses,
and he'll turn out. Maybe by going far enough some of
us can hear where he's gone to."

The general attention was directed to a quarrel between
Jimmy Martin and the youth who had used so much
persuasion to obtain the bottle of whisky. Martin had
stepped on the toes of the youth, whose name was Blake.
Blake complained of the act and was told that he was a
liar. He demanded an apology, which Martin refused
to give. Thereupon he threw off hia coat and vest,
rolled up his shirt-sleeves, unbuttoned and turned down
his shirt-collar and advanced in fighting attitude toward
Martin, who made no preparation for the attack.

Dr. Rorus passed around the large round stove to
separate the disputants. Grabbing each by the collar,
he exclaimed, "What! Gen'lemen! Quarreling in a
time of public danger, when the welfare and the safety of
the community is at stake! Quarreling when our property
and our rights and our sacred honor are at stake!
For it's a question of honor, gen'lemen. You'll all say
it's dishonorable to steal horses, won't you? Then it's
dishonorable to let 'em be stole. Do you know what
town you're in? Break o'Day, and Break o'Day has
the fires of patriotism. You should be ready to leave off
and lay aside and forget, you know, your little feuds and
animosities. Would George Washington have stopped
for a little fuss at Yorktown? Would Joseph Warren
have paused for a racket, just a common blow up, I mean,
on the sacred soil of Bunker Hill? Do you suppose, my
dear sir, that Mad Anthony Wayne would have stopped
charging up Stony Point because some one stepped on
his toe? Others may wrangle in a time of public calamity,
but," he concluded with a leonine roar, "I. J. H.
Rorus, never, no, never."

"You won't have to go to Bill's, Whipple," said the
flaxen-whiskered man. "There he comes now."

"Well, Bill," said Whipple, as soon as the new-comer
was in their midst, "I've lost my bay colt."

"I guess not," replied Briggs, at whose house Wrengell
had stopped for breakfast. "He's in my barn now."

"No," cried Whipple. "Where did you find him?"

"In my field tagging after a fellow that come from th
swamp. He said he got lost, and your colt followed
him."

"I don't believe no such yarn," exclaimed Whipple.
"He stole him, and the cold got away. What did he say
about it, any way?"

Briggs, with considerable exaggeration, gave an account
of his interview with John, dwelling particularly on the
way in which the latter had withheld his name and place
of residence. "He was covered with mud from head to
foot," said Briggs, "and he had scratches on his face and
hands. I'm inclined to think he and his pards had a
disagreement. It wouldn't be strange if that's how he come
to roll in the mud and get the scratches. While he was
eating, I skipped around through the fields and come here.

The drugstore was in a state of tumult. The chairs
were deserted, and the men stood, some lethargic with
drink, some talking boisterously and urging immediate
action.

"We'll go right down there and get him," said Whipple,
"and we'll hear what he has to say for himself. If he
can't tell a straight story, he may as say his prayers."

"That's the talk," exclaimed the flaxen-whiskered man.
"We may just as well make an example of him. That's
what we swore to do with the first one we caught."

"We ain't sure that he stole him," said Briggs, who was
alarmed at the effect his words were producing, and who
that day learned to his regret that it is easier to incite
than to appease the fury of a drunken mob. "I don't
know but most any one would look suspicious if he was
mudded up and scratched up that way."

"Trot out your rope," yelled young Blake. "Less be
a-going."

"Now, doctor," said Whipple, "it's my treat. I want
you to set out the best you've got for the boys, a glass
around. This kind of a thing don't happen very often,
you know."

"Exceptions to all rules," commented Rorus. "Yes,
I'll do it once, Whipple. It's like violating the
constitution, that grand instrument, that bundle of wisdom,
a heap in it, too. You can do that when it's a military
necessity. This is a civil necessity."

"There he is coming now," said Briggs, when the glasses
which had been set out by Rorus had been drained. "But
I wouldn't be too rough on him boys. I'd turn him
over to the law."

"No law to-day," replied the flaxen-whiskered man.
