CHAPTER XIX.
THE VILLAGE HAS A SENSATION.

The rain had quite dried from the withered grass in the
road when Wrengell left the residence of Briggs. Some
men in a meadow at the right were stirring hay, which
would soon be fit to haul. In a field belonging to a farm
adjoining, a reaper was doing the first work in harvest
which John had seen that year.

It was not until Wrengell entered Break o'Day that he
bethought himself of his rough exterior. Had he considered
in time, he would have gone through the fields, thus
avoiding the village, but it was now too late to do so. Several
loungers on the veranda of the hotel stared at him, and
one of them put down his paper and spoke to the landlord
about the mud-besmeared passer-by. John met Manie's
friend, Miss Holmes, as she was coming from Birch &
Bigney's store. She bowed pleasantly, but she was, he
fancied, ashamed of their acquaintance.

Wrengell was annoyed by the scrutiny of some men who
were peering from a yellow building which bore the sign,
I. J. H. Rorus. Their curiosity, which bordered on
impertinence, was indicated by earnest gestures and one or
two outstretched fingers which pointed directly toward him.
Used, as he had been, to snubs, he was not accustomed to
such insolent demonstrations; and he returned glances
of defiance to the group at the door of the drug-store.
His fearless demeanor prevented for a brief season the
aggressive movement which was intended. The men
stood parleying on the steps, some rhetorical, some
argumentative, others fiercely denunciatory, each heedless of
all opinions save his own, none succeeding in making
himself well understood.

"Helloa, there," called Whipple, just as John had
passed them. "What's your name?"

The salutation was not the one most likely to propitiate
an individual who considered that he had already been
the subject of interest far too intense to be polite.

"When I am satisfied that you have a right to demand
an answer, I will give it," replied John.

"We'll see whether we have a right to question you,"
said the flaxen-whiskered man, jumping from the steps.
"Come on, boys. Now will you tell us what your name is?"

"No," returned John. "Get out of my way, or I'll
break some of your heads."

"If I was in your place, I wouldn't be so cranky," said
Briggs. "That colt that followed you out of the swamp last
night was stole, and some of 'em think you took him."

"If that is the case," said John, "I recognize your
right to ask the question. Mr. Boyle knows me, do you
not, Mr. Boyle?"

"I never saw you before," answered the sullen Alf, who
had joined the throng.

"Why, I was at your house last night," protested John.
"Mr. Durgenson introduced us."

"You wasn't there last night, nor never," affirmed Alf;
"anyway you never was when I was there."

The crowd hooted and jostling against one another,
endeavored to press closer to Wrengell.

"Grab him," yelled the flaxen-whiskered man.

It was advantageous to John that his enemies were
packed closely about him. Had they been excited by a
rush, it is impossible to say what violence they would have
done. The seizure was merely an extension of the
captors' arms, to which John very quietly and sensibly
submitted. Many who were unable to get near him picked
up stones and clubs, staggered about and uttered loud
threats.

"That is Dr. Rorus' drug-store," said John. "There
is a man in there whom I know."

"What did you say?" inquired Briggs. "They make
so much noise. Keep still a minute, boys, can't you?"

"Tell Loomis to come out," said John. "He knows
me."

"Doctor," shouted Briggs, "where's Fred? This fellow
says he knows him."

"Gone to Sharp town," said the doctor. "Won't be
back till to-night. You had better confess this business,
young man. The American people are a magnanimous
people. They are a great people. Confess it, young man.
If you do, Dr. Rorus is on your side. I tell you, when
you've got him, you've got a host."

"I am one of Major Ratke's hired men," said John.
"I have worked for him all summer and have formed
some acquaintance, but none of them, except your clerk,
live here."

The crowd, gathered from the scum of Break o'Day
and the surrounding country, was gesticulating, contending,
threatening. There were, indeed, several who tried
to protect the unfortunate Wrengell from the general wrath.
Inoffensive Jimmy Martin mildly protested that they
ought to give him "a show for his life." Keen contrition
was felt by Briggs for the account which he had given of
John's exit from the swamp. He had much exaggerated
the facts, and the exaggeration was likely to result in
the murder of a man whom he believed he had grossly
wronged.

"Boys," he called, "less see what he's got to say for
himself. We don't want to hurt him till we find out
whether he deserves it or not."

"Take him down to the tree," said the flaxen-whiskered man.

The party moved down the street to an oak, the spreading
branches of which often afforded a shade to the villagers.
Stakes had been driven, one under the tree, another
a few paces from it, and around each had been worn
depressions where the boys and men had pitched quoits.

"Where's a rope?" called Boyle. "Somebody git a
rope."

Half the mob started up the village, leaving the rest to
guard Wrengell. John saw no hope of rescue.

In the besotted, reddened faces around him was neither
judgment nor mercy. Those who were least intoxicated
were almost invariably hardest of heart by nature, and
seemed to rejoice over the circumstances which had
delivered the prisoner into their hands. Those who were
naturally best disposed were, as a rule, too much overcome
by drink to have an exact perception of justice. He
resolved that, whatever pleasure they derived from his
execution, they should not have the satisfaction of seeing him
weaken at the last moment. He would die unflinchingly,
without a word of entreaty. If the ruffians expected to
witness his dejection or terror, they should be disappointed.
If in the death-struggle his body yielded to the convulsions
of expiring nature, it should be when it was no longer
presided over by his will. To the south of him lay the swamp
which he had been so anxious to leave. Its aspect, as he
stood in the power of the brutal loungers, was far from
forbidding to him. The tamaracks were in two phalanxes.
In the first were the short trees with their conical figures,
standing the advance guard of a mighty host. The next
were of high stature, but irregular in form, their tops
lacking the gradual taper which beautified those in the first
body. Beyond these, like giants in the rear of a throng,
were the upland woods, looking down on the outskirts of
the hamlet, where savage men were arranging a spectacle
both fascinating and revolting.

Washington Street was in a tumult. A long inch rope
had been obtained and grasped by many hands, was being
carried to the intended gallows. Several business men of
the town were accompanying the roughs and vainly
expostulating on the precipitancy of their action. Wingscheut
was with them, delivering a narrative only part of which
could be distinguished above the uproar. John was about
to reckon on a certificate of good character from his
fellow-laborer, when he reflected that the German had
mistrusted him of having secured his discharge from Ratke's.
The vigilance of those about him had lessened. They
had scattered and were intent on inspecting the body
advancing with the rope. His left arm was clutched fiercely
by Boyle; his right was held in an indifferent grasp by
young Blake, who was between him and the tamaracks.

Suddenly he jerked loose his right hand and planted it
on the jaw of Boyle, who fell, momentarily stunned. As
he whirled about, Blake quickly moved aside. The only
one now in his way was Briggs; and his interviewer of
the early morning, glad that he could partly nullify the
effect of his misrepresentation, purposely stumbled over a
Stone and allowed him to pass unmolested. Wrengell
barely touched the fence in leaping it. With light feet
and swift steps he ran toward the swamp, in the brush and
quagmires of which he might find protection. The
disappointed mob, uttering yell after yell of rage, started
in pursuit. Among other cries John could plainly discern
those of Wingscheut, who did not recognize the fugitive,
"Cetch te tam horse-tief. Cetch te tam horse-tief."

The distance between him and the rabble was increasing.
He could not understand why they spread far to the
left and right, unless it were to prevent him from escaping
in either direction lengthwise of the swamp. The course
which he took was undeviating. Some lazy cattle directly
ahead of him dashed out of his way as he ran almost
against them. Two men, one cradling and one binding,
were at work in a small field of wheat on a southern
slope. John raced straight through a few rods from them,
leaving a path of lodged grain behind him. The owner of
the field, who was cradling, called to know "why in the
name of all possessed he was trampin' down his wheat."
Undaunted by this inquiry, Wrengell descended the hill
and passed into the shelter of some willow bushes, where
he moderated his pace to a walk. Although this was the
asylum which he had sought, he was impatient at the
impediments to his progress and more uneasy that when he
could watch the movements of his enemies. He felt relieved
as he entered the body of low tamaracks which he had
viewed from Break o'Day. But he could not stop there.
Every jungle, every fallen tree-top, in fact every foot of
ground was liable carefully to be searched. In the large
tamaracks, where there was less underbrush, he went
with more rapidity.

A gleam of water was before him. He was nearing a
lake, which with an area of half a section effectually barred
his advance. The sound of voices at his right prevented
him from wheeling and skirting along the bank. He, without
practice as a swimmer, was on a point of land surrounded
by the water and his foes. In his pocket was a revolver
which he had obtained in a trade with Daggett,
a cheap, rusted weapon, the cylinder of which had to be
turned by hand each time it was fired. His pursuers,
almost in sight, were crashing through the swamp. He had
decided to turn, draw his revolver and stake his chance
of escape on one determined charge, when across the point
of land, through the thin growth of trees, he discovered a
boat. Not a minute did he occupy in crossing the cape,
but rapid as was his progress, it did not bring him first on
the spot which he wished to reach. Young Blake and a
companion gained the dock, barely in advance of him,
and stood, panting, to intercept his flight. With a
flourish of his revolver he dashed at the young men, who
scrambled precipitately to land, unheeding water, mud
and reputation for courage. John's haste was nearly as
great as that of the foes whom he had frightened.
Slipping on the narrow dock, which was composed of a few
poles, he fell into the water, regaining his footing as Alf
Boyle emerged from the tamaracks. To his discomfiture
he found the boat locked. He must act with decision,
for a reinforcement of roughs was but a few rods distant.
He seized the chain and pulled with his entire strength,
but the fastening remained secure. In desperation he
clutched a paddle and pushed. The chain straightened,
the lock gave way; the momentum had accomplished what
the steady force could not.

Alf in the mean time had traversed the dock. His eye,
which the night before had avoided John, was now fixed
upon him with a brute ferocity. Seeing the boat sheering
away from him, he sprang into the lake and grasped
its gunwale, nearly overturning it. At the instant he was
raising himself to clamber on board, he received from
John's paddle a blow on the head, which loosened his
hold and obliged him to seize the dock to keep from
sinking. Several young men leaped into the lake, but they
were kept from a near approach to John by the splashing
of water into their faces and the sight of the paddle,
which was menacingly uplifted. The gathering mob cast
curses and sticks at the fugitive, but the demonstrations
only showed their present impotence to do him harm. It
was fortunate for John that there were no fire-arms among
them; for, had they possessed them, they certainly would
not have hesitated to use them.

Wrengell, perspiring and fatigued from his long run, did
not feel at liberty to pause. He did, however, wait long
enough to remove his coat and vest, which had much impeded
his flight. Near the opposite shore and a considerable
distance apart were two boats laden with fishermen. After
repealed signaling and shouting they understood that they
were expected to stop an escaping horse thief. They
unfastened the chains from the anchoring poles and
guided their vessels so as to bring them across
Wrengell's route. In an emergency rashness is sometimes
safer than caution. John altered his course, steering
directly for the nearer craft. Amazed at his audacity, the
fishermen slackened their speed. Wrengell was within what
he considered good rifle range when, turning the rusted
cylinder of his revolver and elevating the muzzle, he fired.
He was little practiced and had no dexterity in pistol-shooting,
but to his astonishment and their dismay, the
bullet struck close to the prow of the foremost boat. Careful
to turn the weapon slightly to one side, he fired a
second time; and the missile, whizzing past them, struck
the water with a cutting plunge. The paddles which propelled
the craft stopped moving, and the occupants looked
from one to another in mute inquiry. While they were
deliberating, Wrengell pulled toward them as if he were
anxious for an encounter. Convinced that they were
dealing with one of the most bloodthirsty of horse-thieves,
who was bent on slaughtering the entire party, they paddled
manfully to the eastern end of the lake. Those in the
second boat, finding themselves unsupported, made off in
the direction of the western extremity. The crafts skirted
the opposite ends of the lake, so as to be well out of
reach of the dreaded outlaw, and in response to the frantic
shouting and waving of hats crossed over to transport
the crowd at the dock.

John strengthened the impression which he had made
by sending after them two more shots. He then struck
out for the southern shore, where he halted a moment to
rest. The fishermen were making their best time to relieve
the impatience of the waiting party. Messages were
yelled back and forth, but most of them came from the
shore, for the men on the water were putting forth too
much other exertion to indulge freely in vocalization.

Wrengell threw his coat and vest into the tall grass, and
after a short pause continued his way. The swamp at
this place offered no security. Above or below him he
believed it to be denser and he determined to go to the
eastward, away from the rabble of Break o'Day, away
from the only community which had ever really respected
him, away from the woman whom he loved, whose love
he had hoped to secure. His appearance with the colt
at Briggs' at such an hour and in such a condition, his
refusal to tell his identity at the village, the absence of
the slightest evidence to explain his whereabouts during
the latter portion of the night must tell heavily against
him should an accusation be preferred. He had shown
the bearing of a hardened desperado. He had turned
savagely on those who sought to retake him, as if he had
become accustomed to conflicts in following unlawful
occupations. He had fired upon and barely missed inoffensive
fishermen, whose only aggressiveness to him had been
that with no hostile demonstration they had presumed to
come within range of his revolver. His dreams of
respectability were dissipated. The public would inquire
about his antecedents, and his miserable parentage would
be made known. With his deformed foot, with the
criminal record of his father and his mother, with his own
perpetuity of the family reputation for felony how could
he win esteem? He decided to go to the higher ground,
which, because of its superior footing, he would follow for
several miles, returning to the swamp when he had
traversed that space.

A short walk brought him to the elevated forest which
he had viewed from the village. He was on the watershed
of the lower Michigan peninsula. The lake which
he had crossed was one of a series emptying through Huron
River into Erie. The streams on the opposite side of the
table-land went westward and, passing around Mackinac
through the upper part of the great lake-chain, arrived at
the same destination.

The wide spaces between the high tamaracks below
John allowed him to see the surface of the water, which
was hardly disturbed by a ripple. The boats had started
to recross. Filled with excited men and impelled by
clumsy substitutes for oars, including poles and boards,
they veered from side to side as the misdirected efforts of
the rival paddlers alternately prevailed.

John started through the woods on a trot, which he
intended to maintain for an hour. He had no apprehension
that they would immediately overtake him, for he had
fairly outrun them at the beginning of the race. His
greatest fear was that some of them would procure horses
and, proceeding along the road, head him off, after which
they would make a diligent search. He arrived presently
at a field, which he deemed it injudicious to cross. In
order to avoid exposing himself to view he was obliged to
sheer farther from the swamp, passing along the edge of
the timber. The field at his left gave place to a growth
of bushes and small trees. Not exactly liking the route
which he had chosen, he climbed a fence for the purpose
of entering the thicket. He stood a moment on the top
rail, listening for the sounds of pursuit. As he was about
to descend, the rotten rail broke and he was precipitated
heavily to the ground. He strove to rise, but a sharp
pain shot through his ankle, which refused to bear his
weight. He was crippled and defenseless, and near
him were enemies who, if they were before relentless, were
now exasperated. He had fallen at the edge of a blackberry
thicket, the paths of which at frequent intervals indicated
that the place was much visited. In the hope of finding
a jungle which might screen him, he crawled for a few
feet, but the briars which pierced his hands soon induced
him to try another mode of travel. His next experiment
was hopping, which had also its disadvantages. The
bushes caught in his clothes, threw him off his balance,
and aggravated the pain in his injured limb. He again
went on his hands and knees, regardless of the injury to
his flesh. As he was thus advancing, he came without
warning near a woman, who with her back toward him
was picking berries.

With the intention of silently stealing away he partly
arose and was about to execute his purpose, when the
berry-picker, hearing a slight noise, turned around and
faced him. An exclamation of surprise, which bordered
on alarm, burst from the woman, who was Mrs. Boyle.

But she quickly recovered her composure as she perceived
that her rough-looking visitor was the young man in whom
she had been so interested the preceding night. Her
countenance expressed some displeasure, which
undoubtedly arose from her inability to understand why
Wrengell should use such secrecy in his approach.

"They are after me!" exclaimed John, "a crowd of
drunken men! They think I am a horse-thief! You can
hear them in the woods yonder."

"They are coming," said Mrs. Boyle, in a frenzied 
manner. "I don't know where you can hide. What shall we
do? Oh, dear! What shall we do?"
