CHAPTER XXIII.
ONE HOUR OF BLISS.

By Mrs. Boyle's clock it lacked twenty-two minutes of
midnight. It was the hour for sleep and repose, yet it
was an hour of activity. The hornets were buzzing in
their hidden nests, the millers were flitting about the
lamp. The two human occupants of the house were excited.
One had been brutally attacked; and the other had
come to her assistance too late, or, perhaps,
providentially late.

"You say he is not my son," said Mrs. Boyle. "You
talk as if you knew, John."

He noticed with pleasure that she called him John.
"So I do know," he replied. "A dull man ought to be
able to tell that. When I am convinced that the loftiest
virtue begets the grossest vice, I will believe that you are
his mother."

"No," she said, "he is not my son. None of the neighbors
know it, and he don't know it. I'm sure you won't
tell anything I don't want you to."

"No," said John earnestly, "I never will."

"Then, if you're not sleepy," said Mrs. Boyle, "I will
tell you the whole story. When Mr. Boyle was alive, we
stayed several years in Chicago. We lived just a little
ways from Alfred's folks. I guess I won't tell even you
his real name. His father and mother were bad characters.
They both drank and stole. They would quarrel
and sometimes fight. Once in a while he pounded her
terribly. Little Alfred would scream as loud as he could.
He wasn't big enough to talk much. Then, if Mr. Boyle
was at home, he would go over to see about it. The
last time he went Alfred's father and mother both told
him to go home and never come there again. They
could manage their own affairs. Finally he pounded her
so that he was arrested and sent to jail. It wasn't long
after that she stole some valuable jewelry out of a store.

"I was in court when they sentenced her. She might
I have got off easier but she was sullen, just like Alfred,
and she prejudiced them against her. She was sent to.
the penitentiary for a year. It was hard to see that little
fellow hanging to her hand, and to think what a training he
would get. I told her if she would give him to me, I
would take him. She seemed to be glad to get him off
her hands, and she said she hadn't any objections."

Mrs. Boyle gave John an account of her and her protégé
since Mr. Boyle's death, of their removal to Michigan, of
Alf's growing depravity, which he manifested even in his
early childhood.

"He is naturally bad," said John. "You might as well
try to turn a bramble to a peach tree as to attempt to
make a respectable man of him."

"I know he has got into some awful trouble," said
Mrs. Boyle. "I don't expect him back very soon. But
if he comes, you must stay above, no matter how he
acts."

"You want me to be less than a man," replied John.
"You think I would stay up there and let him strike you.
If he attempts any such thing again, I will come sooner
than I did before."

"Then he certainly will kill you," said Mrs. Boyle.
"You don't know him. He has a passion for killing
things. Whenever he can, he takes the life of a chipmunk,
or a toad, or a fly, or anything, no matter what
it is."

John remembered the millers, the bat and the squirrel;
and he knew that Mrs. Boyle's estimate of the ruffian's
character was correct.

"Now, do as I tell you, John," she continued. "You
seem almost like my own boy. You won't get mad if I
call you John, will you?"

"No," said John, "I wish I were your son."

He thought long of her words. Until then, motherless,
not quite friendless, he had yearned for that sympathy
which, coming only from the maternal heart, cures wounds
of the spirit and body and makes suffering almost desirable,
that the joy of healing may be experienced. Instinct
had told him that he needed it. Other boys had been
petted and caressed while he had been kicked and cursed.
Now, when boyhood was passed, he had found a foster-mother
who was kinder than his natural parent, whose
touch was balm for bodily pain, whose presence banished
despondency, whose words were gentle in consolation and
in reproof. He would have laid down his life for her and
rejoiced in the sacrifice. Could he have been her son,
even if disgrace had still clung to him, how much of misery
would he have escaped.

The sun was again peeping over the tall trees when
two men walked across the clearing and inquired for
Alfred Boyle. After satisfying themselves by inquiries
that he was not in the house, and informing Mrs. Boyle
that he was wanted for robbery at Birch & Bigney'S
store, they passed on.

"You can come down, John," said Mrs. Boyle, stopping
under the entrance to the loft. "Alfred won't be back in
a good while."

John's leg made rapid progress toward recovery. With
Mrs. Boyle's permission, for he was generally scrupulous
in yielding to her wishes, he walked about the small clearing
on his crutches.

The excitement over his adventure had materially subsided,
or had given place tot hat over the recent robbery.
It was whispered here and there that possibly the real
thief had not accused, and it was universally
admitted that the mob had acted with more haste than justice.
Still, John did not care to have his whereabouts known.
Such a knowledge would lead to his arrest, when he would
be asked to furnish some explanations which he could not
satisfactorily give. And yet, menaced by those consequences,
he took risks. Without the knowledge of Mrs.
Boyle he wandered to the narrow strip of improved land
which lay between the woods and the swamp. He must
get where he could see beyond the small pen in which he
was imprisoned by the forest, and he must not show contempt
of her orders. Each day he sat for an hour at the
foot of a large tree, scanning the continuous strip of
timber. The long field was the one which with its great
brittle lumps of sand he had passed a short time previous
to his accidental meeting with the Wallaces. The high
oaks on the opposite side hid the waters of Coon Lake
and the village of Break o'Day.

Beyond the high belt of wood was one for a sight of
whom he would have ventured much. That misgiving
which he had felt at their parting, that impulse which in
the face of resistance had urged him to bid a second adieu
were not vain follies, but the warnings of, and, had he
heeded them, the preparation for an occurrence the end of
which he could not foretell. He speculated as to the
probable location of Ratke's house. He believed that
with the aid of his mathematics he could determine it with
a fair degree of accuracy. After some deliberation he
fixed upon a depression in the upper edge of the woods,
as the place which had been hollowed out by nature that
his gaze might more nearly approach the Gothic house
with its shroud of evergreens and its greater attraction
within. His hand impulsively went to his lips and threw
a greeting toward the imaginary gateway. To verify his
mathematical observations he obtained Mrs. Boyle's
compass. What was the reaction when he discovered that he
had mistaken north for northwest and that he had thrown
his kiss in the direction of Julia Wallace! Rectifying his
mistake, he decided that the dry top of a lofty tamarack
which stood where the skirt of the hard-wood timber ended
was between him and Manie. His breast heaved, but it
soon harbored that discontent which had been engendered
by his early training. Chances for which some vainly
long are given, to others who have for them not the
slightest appreciation. The dry old tree-top cared not
for youth and beauty. Stripped of its foliage to mitigate
the force of the wind and groaning whenever an unusual
gust strained its rheumatic seams, it might look down on
Ratke's, might see a graceful form and composed, dignified
face emerging from the evergreens, yet it ignored its
privileges, while they were yearned for by another.

One night John announced to Mrs. Boyle his intention
to take his departure from her house.

"I hate to have you go," she said, "you step as if your
ankle was nearly well, but you know it is weak yet. You
are welcome to stay, and I'd like to have you. It will be
lonesome when you are gone. Aren't you afraid they'll
try to arrest you?

"I shall go to Barton Junction," said John, "and I have
no acquaintances there. So many crimes have been committed
in this section lately that strangers will not be on
the lookout to apprehend me."

"You are not going to-night?" asked Mrs. Boyle, as
John took his hat.

"Not to the Junction," said John, as he arose. "But I
may not be back until late."

"Now, John," said Mrs. Boyle, laying her hand on his
arm, "be careful. Don't expose yourself too much.
Don't go to Break o' Day, or any place where there are
drunken men. You don't know what they would do."

"I will do as you say," answered John, as he stepped
outside.

He crossed the clearing, on the poorly-cultivated surface
of which fire-weeds had grown rank and thick. As
emitted an acrid odor which suggested the appropriateness
of their name. Wrengell took the road which he
had lost in his first approach to the lonely house in the
clearing. The plentiful light streaming from the heavens
showed the nightly magnificence of the wood. A furlong
from the edge the underbrush was scant, so that the
large trunks were visible for rods. Slender plats of fresh
green grass were scattered at intervals, their loveliness
more apparent because contrasted with the brown spread
of dry leaves. Their verdancy had been preserved in the
cool shade furnished by the great white oaks, whose
strong arms were outstretched to the shelter them from the
heat of midday.

McDuff's heavy gate with the stone balance swung open
as easily as it had done two weeks before. Not wishing to
follow the road, John crossed it and clambered over the
opposite fence. He deemed it advisable to proceed along
the edge of the swamp, where, should he be observed, he
could find a refuge at once. A bright fire, evidently from
a high brush heap, was burning at the border of the woods
beyond the wide stretch of fields. That he was nearing
familiar territory he was apprised by a sound which he had
once detested, but which was now far from unwelcome,
the yelping of Takum's dogs. He crossed a second road
and was shortly in the major's field, for the leveling of
which the hands had worked so long in the spring.

He stood a minute by the front gate. The loud talking
of the men had ceased in the club-house. It was past
the hour when the major's family was in the habit of retiring,
yet a light was burning in the parlor. John stole
to a window and looked inside. Not a person was in
sight. This was inexplicable to him, as it was Ratke's
custom to put out the lights before going to bed. He was
astonished when, taking a closer view, he saw Archer
yawning over a thick octavo volume, the pages of which
he occasionally turned. His fellow hired man had not
been famed for his love of books, and he wondered that
he should suddenly become so devoted a student as to
read until midnight. He could account for his presence
there at that hour, only on the supposition that one of the
household was sick and that he was serving as watcher.
While he was endeavoring to solve the riddle, Mrs.
Grippin appeared, blew out the light, gave some injunctions
which he could not distinguish, and retired. Making
a reconnoissance of the house, John discovered that
lights were burning in two of the back bedrooms, which
were separated by a distance of a few feet. Curtains were
before the windows, and on one of them was impressed
the shadow of a human form. For some minutes he
watched it, undecided whether it were made by Nora or
by Manie. At last the figure quickly jerked its head,
disappeared for an instant and returned. It did not belong
to Manie, it was that of her impulsive cousin.

With a throbbing heart he went cautiously to another
window. Drawing a long breath, he raised his finger
hesitatingly. It trembled an instant in the air and fell
several times faintly on the pane. There was a rustling
of paper within, a sound as of some one closing a book

and moving about in a chair. He was tempted to draw
back from his adventure. Admitting that he had rightly
guessed the location Manie's room, how was he assured
that she would welcome a communication at midnight, or
that she might not be affrighted and raise an alarm. She
had quitted the chair. She was about to take some action,
either to respond to his signal, or to tell the household
that some one was prowling near the room. If he would
prevent her from raising an outcry, he must speak without
delay. He must see her. He must say the farewell
which he had once repressed. He placed his lips almost
to the glass and whispered, "Manie. Manie. Miss
Ratke," he corrected, alarmed at his familiarity. The
curtains parted, and the face of Manie appeared, not
affrighted, but lacking its usual serenity. She started as
she saw a man close enough to touch her had he broken
that barrier of glass.

"Do not be alarmed," said John. "It is I, John, John
Wrengell."

"Is it you?" asked Manie. John thought that there
was something of joy in her manner. "We were afraid
you were dead," she continued. "We had not heard
from you in so long."

"Can you not get on your bonnet and come out?" said
John. "I am afraid we shall be overheard."

"Come to-morrow," said Manie, "and we will all be
glad to see you."

"I cannot," responded John sadly. "I am afraid I
never can come again. I am going away to-morrow
morning, and I would like to talk with you a few minutes."

His hope of having his request granted was so slight
that he was surprised when she put on a straw hat and
began to raise the window. He assisted her to the ground,
and they stood together outside.

"Let us go to the orchard," he said.

It was there that she had accepted the first offer of his
company. He wished, but he doubted, that his words
would be as well received as they were on that Sabbath
morning when the blossoms were fluttering from the
agitated boughs. At the foot of a harvest tree Manie
stooped to pick up an apple. She was not hungry, and
she had no definite purpose in so doing; but John, supposing
that she wished to satisfy her appetite, sprang up the
tree in search of its best products. Like a red squirrel
he raced from limb to limb and soon descended, bringing
a pocketful of mellow apples, which he insisted that she
should take.

Now that he was in her presence, he was at a loss what
to do or what to say. He could not bear to go away
without taking her hand and bidding her an informal
farewell which, if they were destined to meet no more, would
ever be a delightful memory. He dreaded to follow his
inclinations, lest he should be repulsed and their parting
be an event which would bring the most miserable
recollections. He began to feel that their meeting was a
disappointment, that in social position and in mutual
regard they were and must of necessity be far apart.

"I must go in," said Manie.

"Oh, not yet! Please do not go yet!" John
remonstrated. "We have just begun to talk.''

"I have stayed a great while now," said Manie. "If
people knew it, what would they say of my climbing from
a window to meet you at night?"

"They will not know it," said John, "and there is no
hurt in it, I am sure. I own it does not reflect credit on
you to be seen with me. I am poor and disgraced. I do
not wish to drag you down to my level. To-morrow
morning I go away, and I shall not come back. Keep
from me in the future, but to-night bid me good-bye as
you would an equal."

"And where will you go?" asked Manie.

"Of that I am uncertain," said John. "I mean to
escape from my evil destiny. It has followed me like a
hound all my life. But I will struggle with it to the end.
If I am overcome, it will be when I have strength to fight
no longer. I mean yet to make a man whom the world will
and must respect. I will take no rest, I will work in
season and out of season; and if I fail, it will not be my
fault."

"I believe you will succeed," said Manie. "You
certainly deserve to."

"Do you think so?" said John, excited so much that
his articulation was indistinct. "By God's help I will
succeed! Manie, Miss Ratke, I will go and try. If I
fail, I will stay away as long as I live. But if I succeed,
if the world by its recognition acknowledges the wrong it
has done me, may I come back, come back with hope in
my heart, and ask you to be my wife?"

"I can consent to no such proposal," said Manie.

"I do not blame you," said John dejectedly. "I make
an unreasonable request."

"You wrong me," said Manie.

"Yes," assented John, "I was foolish to speak as I did.
You have a right to resent such an offer from one in my
position."

"I care nothing for your position," said Manie, "But
your offer implies that I am selfish. It accuses me of
wishing to share your fortune, but escape your misfortune.
If I would have you at all, I would have you whether you
were rich or poor, successful or unsuccessful, esteemed
or despised."

Again John felt the buoyancy of hope. She was near
him, she, who, when he was menaced by danger and
tortured with pain, had with hardly an interruption occupied
his thoughts for a fortnight. His arm stole about

"Do not drive me away just yet," he pleaded. "Repulse
me if you will, but after I have done speaking.
Manie, I must call you that name once, I did wrong you.
But now I ask you, shall we not go together in joy and
in sorrow, in prosperity and in adversity, in riches and
in poverty, in fame and in disgrace, as long as we live?
It is a great sacrifice which I ask of you. Do not answer
me yet. Let me be in suspense. Let me think for
a moment that I have won you, that we need not again
be separated."

She did not reply, and his grasp involuntarily tightened.
There was inspiration to John in every sight
and sound, in every message communicated by the senses.
The wind gently touched his brow.

Every orb in the sky was sending down its quota
of light. The house showed its roof and eaves above
the trees, as if it had been dropped and had sunk in its
soft cushion of green. The branches of the apple tree,
swaying slightly, cast at their feet silver bars and meshes
of bright net-work. The steady signing of the cricket,
blending with the sharp jerking chirrup of the katydid,
closed his eyes and plunged him into a reverie, which
was brief, delightful, and ever after unforgotten.

"I am ready for your answer," said John. "Sentence
me as you will."

"Yes," said Manie.

Her reply destroyed the last vestige of his composure.
He threw his other arm frantically about her and kissed
her again and again.

"Stop, stop!" said Manie. "One arm in that posture
is enough. I shall have to go in now."

They said nothing as they walked to the house. John
opened the window and lifted her carefully through.

"Give me a good-night kiss," he said. "I do not like
to take leave of you as formally as I did the last time I
was in the house."

"I hope you are satisfied now," she said, after his
demand had been granted.

He was about to take another salute without permission,
when Manie, anticipating his design, quickly
withdrew her head and closed the window.
