CHAPTER XXIV.
A BEETHOVEN AND A GIBBON IN ONE.

"HELLOA!" exclaimed Daggett, as he approached the
gate, "where's the hind wheels?"

"The road was rough, and the wagon uncoupled," said
the major. "They are on the causeway, but you need
not mind them till morning. Perhaps you had better
have Will take care of the team. I shall want you to do
an errand for me in the course of an hour."

Daggett case some curious looks at Mr. Boutwell as he
opened the gate and led the team through it.

"Whatever is the matter with you, James Ratke?"
ejaculated Mrs. Grippin, when her brother and his
unwilling vistor stood before her. "You've been fighting.
That's just the way you used to look when you was a
boy and got into rows. I'd be ashamed, an old man like
you."

"Mr. Boutwell, my sister," said the major, ignoring
Mrs. Grippin's tirade. "Come this way, Mr. Boutwell,
and we will wash.

Ratke treated the spurious wagon manufacturer with
the utmost deference. He kept an eye on his movements,
however, and Mr. Boutwell understood that though he
might expect the treatment of a king, it would be that of
a captive king. He got him water wash and insisted
that his would be dressed before his own. Mr. Boutwell,
whose experience with the philosopher had taught
him better than to refuse his courtesies, was the picture
of humiliation, as Ratke clumsily adjusted plasters over
his split upper lip and a contusion on his cheek. Mrs.
Grippin, unable to longer absent herself, entered the
kitchen, where she was followed by the girls, who had
arisen to ascertain what had befallen their uncle. The
major in his most polite manner introduced Mr. Boutwell
to the young ladies.

"So you've been fighting, Uncle James," said Nora.
"Who did you" have a fight with?"

"I cannot explain it to you now, little girl," said the
major.

"You will, won't you, Mr. Boutwell?" said Nora.
"Oh, you got into it, too, did you? You and Uncle
James must have been together against a lot of 'em.
Uncle James always sticks by his friends. Didn't he
stick by you?"

"Close enough," answered Mr. Boutwell with a grin.

"You are badly hurt. Uncle James," said Manie.
"Your eye is swollen, almost shut, and the cut under it
does not stop bleeding yet."

"It is nothing," said Ratke, "a little scratch. It takes
a worse wound than that to affect me."

Manie put a plaster over the bruised part. One of the
major's eyes looked sleepy, and Mr. Boutwell's face was
spotted with contusions and plasters.

"This way now, Mr. Boutwell," said the major, leading
the way to the parlor, "make yourself comfortable while
I do some writing."

"Manie," he called, when he had finished a short note,
"tell Mark to take this to Jim Turner. And now, Mr.
Boutwell," he said, "we will go."

"I wonder where in the world they've gone to at this
time of the night," said Mrs. Grippin, as the sound of
their footsteps was dying away. "Some notion James
has got, I suppose."

"Who do you think they had a fight with?" asked Nora.

"How do you suppose I know any more than you do?"
sharply returned Mrs. Grippin. "James ought to have
more care for his reputation than to get into such a
scrape. And the president of a big wagon company surely
could find better business than fighting."

"Maybe they stopped to Break o'Day, and somebody
pitched into 'em," suggested Nora.

"More likely somebody made fun of James' wagon,
and he got mad," said Mrs. Grippin. "That'll touch
him up the quickest of anything."

The major returned late, and Mr. Boutwell was not
with him. He refused to give any information concerning
his visitor, except that he had gone and would not
again come back. The next morning, waxing more
communicative, he yielded to Mrs. Grippin's influence, and
admitted that Mr. Boutwell had attempted to rob him.

"That's the way your speculation turned out," commented
Mrs. Grippin. "You might know he didn't
mean it when he said he was coming to buy your wagon.
He ain't such a fool as I thought he was."

"He is no fool," said Ratke. "He wished to obtain
my money. He estimated properly the force at his disposal,
but fell into the common error of miscalculating
the amount of resistance. I must have Mark hitch up
Taylor. I shall have to go to Jackson to-day."

Why, to-day, is the day Durgenson is coming," said
Mrs. Grippin.

"He wrote me that he cannot be here until to-morrow,
said Ratke.

"Now," cautioned the housekeeper, "don't you take
that money with you, James. It's the safest here."

"I had rather risk it with me," said the major. I am
able to defend it."

"Oh, dear!" exclaimed Mrs. Grippin. "Such a
careless man! You'll fall in with a sleek fellow that
wants to buy your wagon, or some other knave; and the
first thing you know, it will be gone. Now, James," she said
with more moderation, "where did you get that money?"

"Maria," answered the major, "I got it from the Barton
hundred and sixty. I have sold it."

Without a word Mrs. Grippin turned and went to the
parlor. Their last foot of land had been sold. She knew
not when the order would come to leave the homestead
and go into the street. They might find a home, but
what kind of home? Nora would go to her aristocratic
relatives. Manie might die or get married. She pictured
mentally the two who formed the relic of the family,
Ratke grubbing by the day, herself doing washing for
Sparks and Mrs. Green. She was not ashamed to work;
but she was ashamed to know and to have the world
know that their property had been recklessly parted with,
to slave for others in their old age, and finally to be
dependent on local charity or go to the poor-house.

The major came home at dusk. "Well, Maria," he
said, "I have escaped without meeting any bad fortune."

"You want to look out for to-night," cautioned his sister.
"Everybody knows that money is here. You must
watch it to-night."

"I am too tired to sit up," Ratke objected. "I was up
all last night. It will be all right under my head."

"No, it won't," said Mrs. Grippin. "You've got to get
some one to watch it, then."

"I hardly know whom to get," said the major. "All
the men up west have been to Oakville, looking after the
fire. Perhaps Philetus would come."

"Phleet," cried Mrs. Grippin wrathfully, "Phleet
Takum! Haven't you got any more judgment than that?
You know he takes whatever he can lay his hands on!"

"I suppose I might hire Abner Wallace," suggested
Ratke.

"I declare!" ejaculated Mrs. Grippin, after a moment
of speechlessness. "Pick out a thief to watch money!
James, you are a bright one! Get one of your men."

"I hate to ask them to do such things when they work
hard," said the major. "Mark is always willing to do
odd chores, but he did not go to bed till late last night.
I will see what I can do with them."

As the major went up the club-house steps, there was a
scrambling among the inmates. He opened the door too
late to see what had occasioned the confusion. The table
was covered with a newspaper, which was raised at one
corner enough to show several cards. But he did not
notice the evidence of immorality.

"Will," he said, "Maria will give me no peace until I
get a man to stay in the house to-night. She thinks we
are liable to be robbed. I have not the slightest fear of
such a danger, but to keep peace in the family I must do
as she wishes. Can you come?"

"I've been to work awful hard to-day," said Archer.
"That's tough ploughing, you know. It's all I can do to
keep the plough in the ground. I could get along with it,
but I'm all drilled out."

"I know it is hard work," said Ratke, "But Mark
was up last night, and I cannot ask him to go."

"I'll go, Major," said Daggett,

"No," said the major, "I will not let you. You have
lost sleep enough."

"I wouldn't care so much about it," said Archer, "if it
wasn't for to-morrow. But this working as tight as you
can jump and then being up all night, and then keeping
right on the next day, it's too much."

"Oh, as to that," said Ratke, "you can sleep twenty-
four hours, commencing at six o'clock, if you wish."

"Seeing it's an emergency, I'll go," said Archer. "Of
course, I'm willing to make some sacrifice, Major,"

"You need not come until ten o'clock unless you wish,"
said the major, opening the door to depart, "We will sit
up as late as that."

"He wanted you," said Daggett, "and he didn't seem
to want anybody else, I wonder why that was."

"Well," said Archer, "he knows what I am. I've
worked for him a good while."

"Say," said Daggett, "if you get into a snooze, and a
horse-thief goes to jabbing you with a fish-pole, you want
to holler."

Archer, not relishing the reminiscences of his watch in
the swamp, went at once to the house.

Mrs. Grippin was in a passion over the major's choice
of watchman. "Now, Will," she said, "I want you to
have some gumption about you. Wake up once in your
life,"

"Yes," said Archer, "I'll tend right to it, Mrs. Grippin,
The major knows he can trust me for that,"

"I hope he is right," said Mrs. Grippin, "He and the
girls are in the parlor."

The major explained his plan of guarding the money.
There was no danger, he said, but seeing Archer was to
watch, he should take every precaution against a robbery.
He should extinguish the light, he should barricade every
door leading to the room. Then with the money and a
revolver he should get into a dark corner. The north-
east was the best one.

"This reminds me of an incident which happened in
Wisconsin Territory," said Ratke, "when we were chasing
Black Hawk. We had been marching all day, constantly
expecting to come up with the Indians. At night
we camped in the edge of a strip of woods, I was just
thinking of what a fine sleep I should have when the
sergeant told me I was on for picket duty. My watch
commenced at one o'clock. They posted me at least seventy
rods from the camp, a short distance from a creek. It
was rather a dark night and as we looked for an assault,
I did not fancy the position. Standing where the enemy
can see you, but you cannot see him, is quite different
from advancing toward a perceptible danger. I knew
that if the Sacs and Foxes were prowling about, they had
an excellent chance to get my scalp. Sounds as of something
going cautiously over the leaves kept coming from
some woods on the other side of the creek. Presently
there was a disturbance in the water, a subdued splashing
which I knew to be occasioned by the crossing of a man
or of some animal. The grass, which was tall and thick,
began to wave suspiciously, and to add to my uneasiness
the waves were coming toward me. I was at a loss what
to do. Staying there for a target with the certainty of
being hit the first fire was not in the least agreeable.
Abandoning the post and giving an unnecessary alarm
was to be avoided if possible. I got under cover of
a tree, held my rifle ready to use, and waited. I could see
a distinct advancing motion of the grass. I own I was
nervous as I fired. I was still more so, when the steady
motion changed to a spasmodic struggling and some
objects which I could not see retreated: I had now no
doubt as to the proximity of the Indians, but I did not
think it my duty to go to the spot where I had heard the
struggling. I waited a few minutes and could plainly
distinguish more splashing as if others were crossing the
creek. In a few minutes I was certain that some figures
were skulking along between me and the camp. The
disturbance in the grass near the creek continued. The
camp had been warned and I felt justifiable in abandoning
my post. As I bore to the right, three or four shots
from the direction of the skulkers made me give one
mighty jump. I brought my rifle to my shoulder, fired
and ran. When I got to camp, everybody was up ready
for an attack. The first man I met was the orderly
sergeant.

"'Why, Ratke,' said the sergeant when I came up, 'we
thought they'd killed you. Did you shoot at them or did
they shoot at you?'

"'Both,' I answered.

"'Well, that's queer,' said the sergeant. 'We heard
only one shot'

"'I should think it is queer,' I answered. 'I fired at
them. Then they got between me and the camp and fired
three or four shots at me and I fired back.'

"'Now I don't see how that is,' said the sergeant.
'We saw one of them moving off. We fired at him, and
he fired back, and the ball just scraped Montcalm's side.'

"'What!' I said, 'was it you who came out there?'
I understood it then. They had heard the shot I fired
and had crept out, when we mutually mistook each other
for Indians, In the morning I found near my post the
body of the largest raccoon I ever saw. New guards are
always fearful of an attack from the enemy. They forget
that the same prudence which they have will keep the foe
from hazarding a rash assault."

"Can't you sing something for us, Mr. Archer?" asked
Nora, beginning to yawn.

"Oh, I guess not, Mrs. Warfle," answered Archer, in
the manner which indifferent artists employ to induce more
urging. "I guess I hadn't better."

"Oh, yes, now, Mr. Archer," pleaded Nora. "If you
only knew how we like to hear you. Why, if I could sing
like you can, I'd give almost anything."

"That's what a good many folks have said, but still I
don't claim to be anything great," observed Archer modestly.

"How did you learn to sing so nice?" inquired Nora.

"Well," said Archer, "it's Nature does the most of it."

At this juncture the vain major, whose greatest intolerance
was for the weakness which he shared, left the
room, unwilling to see his own folly in so exaggerated a
form.

"You can sing so strong," said Nora. "I've heard
Aunt Maria say she never knew any one with such a
voice."

"Now, Nora," said Mrs. Grippin, suddenly making her
appearance, "you've got to quit such nonsense for I won't
have it! You shan't be mixing my name in."

Archer supposed that the housekeeper was displeased
because she rightly suspected that he was making a deep
impression on Nora. Loath to give up the exercise of his
fascination, he exchanged sly glances with the young lady,
to the great wrath of Mrs. Grippin, who determined to
wait until the proper moment, and then, rising in her just
indignation, to send Nora to bed. But as Nora caught
the gleam of her eye, and Archer abandoned his winking
and leering on finding that they were not returned, the
Trebian ambush was never sprung. Mrs. Grippin finally
returned to her room, saying, as she did so,

"Now, Nora, if I hear any more nonsense, you'll start
to bed."

"Mr. Archer," said Nora, a few minutes after the
departure of her stern relative, "did you ever read history
much?"

"Yes," said Archer, "I've read it a good deal."

"Who do you think was the greatest man that ever
lived?"

"Well, now, I can't say positive," said Archer with a
wise nod," but I kind o' think George Washington was,
don't you?"

"No," said Nora, "I think Tammany Hall was. But
they didn't treat him very well, though."

"That's a fact," said Archer, "they used him miserable."

"Who do you think was to blame?"

"Well, now, it's been a good while since I've read it
and a fellow will forget, you know. What do you think?"

"I think Queen Elizabeth was. Let's see. What was
it he said when he got on board the steamer that was to
take him to Cape Colony? Farewell, O England, thou
land of my birth.'"

"Yes, that was it," assented Archer.

"Oh, no. It wasn't either, come to think of it," said
Nora. "Don't you remember?
    "'Long have I served thee O, Queen,'
      Long hath my love to thee been.

He was a poet, you know."

"That's so," said Archer. "I do remember now."

"What do you think of Moses the Great?"

"I think he was quite a man."

"I guess he was quite a man. He conquered the whole
world, you know,"

"Yes, I know it," said Archer, bobbing his head.

"Oh, no," exclaimed Nora, "not quite all when we
think about it. There was Elisha the Seventh, of Russia,
beat him at Waterloo."

"So he did," admitted Archer.

"How Moses the Great did run his horses to get
away," pursued Nora, "full-blooded Hambletonians, too.
They said they run awful."

"They claim they scratched gravel to beat all," said
Archer.

"You can find pictures of all the great men in this
history of the world," said Nora, bringing from one of the
bookcases a large volume with morocco back and corners.

"I like to look at pictures. Mrs. Warfle," said Archer,
taking the history.

"Let's see," said Nora, "they called Elisha the Seventh
Giant Lishe, because he was such a great man to fight"

"I know they did," said Archer, "He was a tearer
let loose."

"Isn't it time to go to bed?" asked Manie.

"No," answered Nora, "I'm not going to bed yet. Go
on if you want to. I believe he was born in the year eight
hundred and two. I think his greatest exploit was at the
battle of Lundy's Lane, where he slew Olyppus the Tiger
with his own hand. Let's see, was it one of his own
officers that killed him?"

"I don't remember," said Archer. "I've had to work
so hard lately that I ain't read much. But I was posted
once."

"Oh, no," said Nora, "don't you remember? He was
blown up by nitro-glycerine, blown to pieces so they
couldn't find any of his body to burry?"

"That's so, Mrs. Warfle," assented Archer. "He was
teetotally smashed."

The door suddenly opened and the staring visage of
Mrs. Grippin was thrust inside.

"Nora," she exclaimed, "we've had enough Giant
Lishe for to-night. Now you can poke straight to bed."

Manie immediately rose to leave, and Nora, knowing
that it was useless for her to argue, prepared to obey her
aunt's orders. She went to the bookcase and slipped
under her apron a novel, which she intended to read in her
room. Archer, left to himself, turned over the pages of
the history to see if he could find the portraits of the
heroes whose merits he had been reviewing. He found
many military scenes and many pictures of warriors
whose heads were adorned with smooth helmets or jagged
crowns. But in his search he was not confronted by the
battle-scarred face of Moses the Great or Giant Lishe.

Mrs. Grippin soon came back and ordered him to prepare
for the night's vigil. She blew out the light, told
him to get in the corner designated by the major and
bade him a final good-night.

It chanced that the sofa was in that corner. Archer
was tired. It occurred to him that he could watch as
well reclining as erect. He laid the money on one end
of the lounge, placed his coat on it and his head on the
coat. The ticking of a small clock increased his
drowsiness, and in five minutes he was asleep.

An hour later an intruder was in the room, carefully
lifting Archer's head and removing the bag in his possession,
when the eyes of the sleeper unclosed and Archer
raised himself on his elbow. The robber dashed through
the hall, running close to Nora, who was returning to the
library with the book which she had taken. He entered
the front bedroom and sprang through the open window,
disappearing among the evergreens, just as Archer, who
was now thoroughly awake, fired two shots after his retreating
figure.
