CHAPTER XXVII.
RUIN.

The major gave a shout which awakened the inmates
of the house. Manie called to Nora not to attempt to
escape by means of her bedroom door, but to make her
way out through the window. In this way the two girls
safely passed from the building, though barely in time, as
the fire was sweeping along the gables.

The major's first thought was of the manuscript of his
unfinished work, "Naturæ Concordia Philosophic Animi."
He rushed to the parlor to save his prized papers, but as
he opened the door, there poured out a volume of smoke
and heat which drove him staggering back. He gathered
for another rush, intending to force his way through to
the secretary which held his precious manuscript. Just
then he was seized by Mrs. Grippin, Manie and Nora,
who pushed him through the passage to the sitting-room.

"Don't be a fool, James," said Mrs. Grippin. "You
can't get in there,"

Brought back to reason by the familiar voice and
address, Ratke instantly set to work to save his property.
He pitched a bureau through a window. He sent after it
chairs, a table, the sewing-machine, a lounge and a large
clock. The heat and smoke had by this time grown so
intolerable that he was obliged to retreat to the dining
room. There he threw furniture through the windows,
and began to carry out crockery and kitchen utensils.
Then he thought of saving the things which he had
thrown through the windows, but it was too late. They
were already enveloped in flame.

"Oh! look at the barns," cried Nora, when they had
gone with their last load from the kitchen.

The trail of straw which the major had scattered had
major ran out and turned loose the horses, which went
racing around the barnyard, where the cattle were bellowing
in affright. He opened a gate leading to the lane,
when the mixed drove of animals hurried away to a place
of safety. They had barely escaped when the straw-stack
was lighted, every part of its surface almost instantly
contributing to the blaze. On his return he was obliged to
go around the barnyard, which had become too much
heated to allow him to pass through it.

Humanity alone had sent him to the barns. His
choicest inventions, which he was determined to rescue,
were in the tool-house. When he arrived there, that
building, too, was on fire. With a frantic plunge he went
in at the fire-wreathed door and emerged, bearing his
one-man saw. His New Jerusalem, the most precious of his
mental creations, was still inside. His charred bones
would have been mingled with the ashes and blackened
irons had not Mrs. Grippin and Manie detained him.

"Let me go, Maria!" he said. "Let me go! I must
save my wagon!"

"No, no," said Mrs. Grippin, with unusual tenderness.
"You can't get it. No one can go in there now."

"Let go of me," he insisted, still struggling in the grasp
of the three, for Nora had joined them. "I tell you I
must save it. It is my only hope, and I can never have
the heart to build it again."

They held him until the roof fell in and they knew by
his quiet demeanor that his spasm of excitement had
passed. Indifferent as to what next occurred, he seated
himself on a stick of hewn timber near the road, and
looked alternatively from one blazing building to another.
The club-house was out of range of most of the Sparks
which flew from Ratke's dwelling, but now and then
shingles and other débris were dropped on the roof. By
some of these it was lighted, and, before the destruction
of any of the buildings was complete, it was crackling
under a sheet of fire.

The oat-field joined the barnyard. The grain, thick,
lodged and dead ripe, caught like tinder and sent a swift
wave of flame across the field which ran to the marsh.
Combustion was easy in the grass, which was there wide-leafed
and dry. It spread to the small bushes, where it
grew in height and intensity. It swept with increasing
speed over the outlying small trees, and up and above
the loftiest tamaracks. For miles could be heard the
steady roar and seen the long streams of fire which
grandly illumined the night.

The women carried pail after pail of water to the
clubhouse, but Ratke mechanically watched the swamp. Its
high volume of flame, the grandest spectacle which he
had ever seen, had a singular fascination for him.
Benumbed, as he was, by the succession of misfortunes, he
did not realize that he must leave the farm, that the
Barton hundred and sixty had left his possession, or that
his unpublished book and his Jerusalem wagon were burned.
He did not speculate as to where his refuge would be on
the morrow. He gave no concern to the fact that he was
barefooted, homeless, hatless and coatless. He sat listlessly,
occasionally turning to look at the women, the tool-house,
the club-house, or his dwelling, which was now
nearly consumed.

"Well, major, this is a bad business," said Sparks,
who had approached. "Did you save anything!"

"Yes," answered Ratke, "we saved some dishes."

"That's a good deal better than nothin'," said Sparks.
"You don't want to be gittin' down in the mouth now."

"No," said the major.

"Have you made any pervision for the needcessties o'
the 'casion ?"

"What provision?"

"Why, insurin'. Was you insured?"

"No."

"That's too bad. They don't any man know when such
a needcessty is comin'. If he's prepared for it, he's all
right. But if he ain't he's, as you might say, in a bad fix."

The major had no pugnacity left to resent the reproof
of Sparks. He kept his seat on the stick of timber,
while his unwelcome visitor went to interview and,
perchance, to assist the women, who were still, though
ineffectually, throwing water on the club-house.

"Ain't you got a hose for the pump?" asked Sparks.

"No," replied Mrs. Grippin.

"It would be a nice thing if you had one. You orto a
been lookin' out for that."

Other neighbors arrived on the scene. Among them
was the family of Holmes who lived near the church.
Holmes said that the fire had done all the damage it
could, as nothing was left about the premises for it to
destroy. The major's folks might as well go home with
him. He would think it a privilege to keep them as long
as they chose to stay. Offers of hospitality were made
by every one present.

"You can go home with me if you want to," said
Sparks. "1 ain't a goin' to say I won't give no help
because the major was careless, forgitful like. Some
folks is always careless, and other folks have to make it
up to 'em.

"They're going home with me," said Holmes. "I spoke
first, and they hadn't ought to disappoint me."

Jennie Holmes locked arms with Manie and Nora, and
the three walked away.

"I must see to Uncle James," said Manie. "He feels
so bad. Some one ought to comfort him."

"We will go back and get him," said Miss Holmes.

"Perhaps I had better go alone," said Manie. "He is
used to me."

"Uncle James," said Manie, "we are going to Mr.
Holmes's now."

"Very well," said Ratke. "No doubt it is best for
you to go."

"But you must come too."

"Manie," said the major, looking up for the first time
since her approach, "I want to stay here. I want to
watch the machinery which I have constructed, perishing,
as have my hopes for its success, eaten out piece by
piece, always with a circle of ashes around the
unconsumed part. Do you see the New Jerusalem? The high
posts and the boxes are about gone. The spokes are
burned well to the center of the wheels. I cannot go
until those burn out."

"You had better come," argued Manie. "It will do
you no good to stay here."

"Yes, it will," said Ratke. "All my dearest earthly
possessions are in those embers. They are dying, and I
must be with them to the last. The fire is burning out
of them all except the hard iron. It is burning out of me
everything except the harder and sterner feelings."

"I did not think you were the one to give up, Uncle
James," said Manie.

"Give up?" said the major, "No, I never gave up
to man or misfortune, and I never will. I am not begging,
or cringing, but I am crushed, and I have ceased
to struggle. I care not what happens, I am ready to meet
it. Despair has no further depth to open for me. My
senses are blunted. I am in no great mental pain. I
have suffered so much that my capacity for suffering is
exhausted. Leave me now, Manie. I want to be alone."

"I will not leave you," said Manie. "You shall not
stay here alone in this barbarous fashion."

"You have always obeyed me," said the major sorrowfully.
"I thought you would not choose this as the time
to break my command."

Much as she disliked to go, Manie could not violate the
gentle command of her uncle. She walked slowly, that
she might not join Miss Holmes and Nora, for she was
crying bitterly, not for herself, not for their property, but
for the noble-hearted old major, whose reason, she
believed, was certainly giving way.

Now and then the group in advance cast back glances
at the conflagration. The brilliant display in the swamp
exceeded that of the buildings, as much as their light had
exceeded that of the match by which they were kindled.

The inhabitants of Break o'Day were awakened by
clouds of smoke rolling in at their open windows. Rising,
they perceived here and there waving pillars of fire
standing out against the western sky, the torches which
the dead tamaracks swayed while their green companions
were being slowly undermined. They could not see that
unbroken sheet which curtained the opposite side of the
swamp, but they saw and heard enough to fill them with
consternation. They harnessed teams, they loaded wagons
with furniture and prepared to leave their village the
instant its destruction seemed imminent. But, in the interior
of the swamp, where there was no grass, and where
the only inflammable material was the muck and the few
dry trees, the fire traveled with less rapidity than at the
edge. The people perceived that, though they had cause
for apprehension, there was no immediate danger; and
the exodus was postponed. A few of the business men,
including Dr. Rorus, wished to have a better view of the
conflagration. The road westward, however, was in all
likelihood too hot to be traversed by observers in comfort.
They went, therefore, for a distance along the Sharptown
road, turning south past Briggs's, proceeding west at
Barton Junction, and finally bringing up at the corner by
Takum's.

At Holmes's the two families made a pretense of retiring
to sleep. They rose early, and after breakfast went
back to Ratke. Before them had arrived the party from
Break o'Day, the major's hired men and a number of
farmers. Ratke was still sitting by the tool-house, looking
at the few points of flame which clung about his Jerusalem
wagon. He hardly spoke to his friends and ignored,
or answered briefly, their questions. Manie went close to
their ruined dwelling. Some blackened sheets of paper,
well-preserved in shape, were where the bookcases had
been, and among them she saw a page of "Naturæ Concordia
Philosophiæ Animi," which could be easily read, but
which fell in pieces as soon as it was touched.

"Something ought to be done for him," said Holmes.
"He's lost everything he had. We can all give a little,
and it won't hurt us."

"I s'pose we can," said Sparks, "there's been the
north fire sufferers an' the Oakville sufferers, an' now
there's sufferin' to be helped here. I'm willin' to help,
but of course it pulls on the pocket-book."

"Some one better pass around a hat and a paper," suggested
Holmes. "The ones that have it by them give
money, and the ones that haven't put down what they
will give."

"I'll pass 'em," said Sparks. "Now, gentlemen, who's
a goin' to give somethin' to Major Ratke, He's been a
havin' kind o' bad luck. Of course he orto a made pervision
for it. There ain't no question about that. But he
didn't, an' he can't help it. Nor there can't nobody help
it;" and he held a silver dollar high above his head that
his generosity might be observed.

The offers of charity roused Ratke, who had been deaf
to all other sounds. "Gentlemen," he said, "I can accept
no charity. I am able to work." Then he went back
to his seat on the stick of timber, forgetful of the kindness
which was ready to succor him.

"That knocks the bisness on the head," said Sparks.
"We can't do a thing if he won't take it."

"No, it don't," said Daggett. "Just come along this
way a little where he can't hear us. They ain't got a
place to stay, and we ought to do what we can to help 'em.
Miss Grippin will take that and buy what they need, and
the major won't think to inquire where she got it."

"I don't feel like givin' in no such way," said Sparks.

"Then we don't want you to," said Daggett. "If a
man is too stingy to give anything, let him keep his
money to himself."

"Oh, I'll hand it over to Miss Grippin," said Sparks
quickly, "I was only a sayin' I didn't like such a
roundabout way o' helpin' him."

"Miss Grippin," said Jake Sheppard, "mebbe you
knew I bought that house an' lot this side o' the church,
where Halleck used to live."

"No, I didn't," answered Mrs. Grippin.

"Yes, I bought it, and I ain't no use for it, I'd like to
have somebody in the house, an' I rather, have you than
any one else."

"You can speak to James about it," said Mrs. Grippin.

"You see we don't hitch very well," said Jake, "that
is, he don't like me. I ain't got nothin' agin him, I
don't want any rent. We'll have you some furniture
there in no time. You can go right in from here. The
major wouldn't never think o' askin' who owned it."

"Thank you, I'll do that," said Mrs. Grippin.

A shriek rang out among the evergreens. Hastening
to the spot, the curious spectators found Nora lying in a
faint. Beside her was the body of Montcalm, with the
face turned upward in an expression of anguish which the
great heat, though it had roasted his flesh, had not
obliterated. The hair was burned from his head, and the
clothing hung on his body in ashes. The discovery produced
that silence which awe enjoins on curiosity. Nora
was carried away, and measures were taken for her
restoration to consciousness. For a moment the lookers-on
did not crowd about the body of Montcalm. But,
presently overcoming their timidity, they pressed closer
and soon became convinced of his identity.

"Ah! what have we here?" exclaimed Rorus.
"Another murder! Another case under your jurisdiction,
Sparks."

"I wonder if I hadn't better call the jury right
together?" asked Sparks.

"Certainly, certainly," said Dr. Rorus, breathing fumes
of whiskey in the justice's face. "Every man, every good
citizen, every poor citizen for that matter, the rich and
the poor, the high and the low, all of 'em ought to be
be ready to put down crime. Crime, which kills, crime,
which steals, crime, which robs, crime, which forges, crime,
which slanders, crime, which -- does mean acts, crime is
the worst curse this country ever had and the most
destructive to its morality."

Sparks chose the jury and began to make inquiries
about witnesses. "We'll have to have the major first,"
he said. "He seen him about the last of anybody around
here."

"Don't go to bringin' him," said Jake. "He thought
his eyes o' this feller. It would nigh about kill 'im."

"I don't see how we're a goin' to help it," said Sparks.
"We've got to investigate an' we've got to have testimony."

"Can't be helped," said Rorus. "Can't be helped.
Millions of men have died for law. If we have to sacrifice
one, we'll stand to it like heroes."

"You know it'll clean use 'im up," said Jake. "If you
make 'im come here, you orto be licked."

The major at last arose from the timber. Hearing the
dispute in the evergreens, he listlessly walked in that
direction. Near the trees he went around Daggett, who
purposely stood in his way. Jake, as a last resort, put
both his hands on the shoulders of some spectators and,
gripping tightly without appearing to notice him,
endeavored to prevent him from passing.

"Let me through, Jake," said Ratke.

Jake reluctantly yielded. The major pushed his way
through and came unexpectedly upon the dead man. He
said nothing, but, looking long and searchingly, he read
the story of the robber and the incendiary. The son of
his old comrade, his friend whom he had almost worshiped
had perished in the act of destroying his home.
His golden idol was but shattered clay. Slowly he turned
from the body with an expression of unutterable despair
and went back to the hewn timber. Neither Sparks nor
Rorus had the heart to insist on his revisiting the spot.

"If they hadn't a made such a fuss, he wouldn't a went
up," said Jake to Mrs. Grippin. "Now they've done it, I
s'pose they're satisfied. You better git him home as quick
as you can. Miss Grippin."

"He don't act right," said Mrs. Grippin. "I'll have
Manie take him away."

"Come, Uncle James," said Manie, slipping her arm
through his, "we have a home now in that little house by
the church. Let us go there, you and I."

The major did not seem to hear her. He still gazed
abstractedly at the ashes of the tool-house but at last
yielded more to the gentle tugging at his arm than to her
words. Casting a last look at the irons of the New Jerusalem,
he rubbed his knuckles twice across his forehead
and went silently with his niece.
