CHAPTER XXXI.
AWAKENING.

Ratke was in no great pain, physical or mental, as Manie
led him from the scene of the fire. The repeated blows
which he had received had deadened sensation, and he
had neither concern for the present nor anxiety for the
future. At intervals he passed his palm across his brow,
generally repeating the act before he dropped his hand.

His face and hands were blistered in places, and his
hair adhered to his head in singed clusters, his eyes
were inflamed, and the lashes burned nearly off.

"You are badly burned. Uncle James," said Manie,
who was crying. "How it must hurt you."

"No," answered the major, "I am past suffering. All
that can hurt me is thinking. Sluggishness has come to
my relieve. Do not make me talk or think."

Jake Sheppard's house was a small, one story building,
which lay between the church and the Ratke farm. Back
of it was a log stable, and east of it a diminutive shop in
which its previous owner, a blacksmith, had worked.
When it was reached by the Ratkes, some chairs were already
in it, and dishes and furniture were approaching
near by in a wagon.

Manie went to the residence of Holmes for remedies to
apply to her uncle's burned face and hands. She bathed
them in oil and arranged a shade for his eyes. He did
not seem to appreciate her kindness, although he submited
to it without a word of opposition or comment.

"Miss Grippin," said Daggett, coming to the back door
of their new residence, "the men all want to do something
for you. We're going to get up a pile of woodl. If
anybody else offers you any wood, you tell 'em you've
got enough already spoke for, will you?"

"I will," returned Mrs. Grippin. "Thank you, Mark."

Daggett retreated a few steps, and motioned Mrs.
Grippin to follow him. "How is he?" he asked, pointing
toward the room where the major was.

"I'm afraid he will never be any better," said Mrs. Grippin.
"He is losing his mind. He don't realize much of
anything that is going on. He can understand when we
talk right to him, but if we don't, he wont pay any attention."

"Boys," said Daggett, as he joined his fellow-workmen,
who were in front of the house, "you go over to the
woods. I'll skip up and see Miss Green. I know she'll
sell me a tree or two."

Daggett purchased three fallen trees of Mrs. Green and
proceeded across to the woods, which were in sight of the
smouldering farmhouse which was now deserted by spectators.

"This won't be a quarter enough," he said to Sheppard.
"We can buy the rest of some one else cheaper that we
can of her, though."

The men worked with a will, as though to atone for
their neglect of duty while in the major's service. Strange
to say, the most active and efficient of them all was Archer.
He pulled an end of a cross-cut saw with such energy
that Daggett, Sheppard and Brown were successively
obliged to desist from working with him.

"You chop, Will," said Daggett, "there can't no man
saw with you."

Archer snatched an ax and hurried to the top of the
tree, where he struck off limb after limb, trimmed them and
chopped them into stove-wood with astonishing rapidity.

"What's Phleet Takum a pokin' round that fire for?"
said Jake.

"Philetus stood by the edge of the ruins which marked
the site of Ratke's dwelling. He had a rake with which
he reached as far as possible, systematically dragging the
ashes and bringing to him whatever he could conveniently
pull. A pack of dogs was scouring about the yard.

"Git out o' that, you thief," yelled Jake. Immediately
after, the men in chorus set up a prolonged yell. The
startled Takum, followed by his dogs, made swiftly for
the woods, and he was not seen again by his neighbors
for two days.

"My faithful men," said the major after the wood was
hauled, "my faithful men, and I did not even thank them."
For a week he mourned that he had not expressed to
them his gratitude.

Let us pause in our account of Ratke's experience to
note some events in the history of the neighborhood which
is connected with our narrative.

Sparks, who had offered a considerable reward for the
recovery of Madge T. was rejoiced when a detective found
his property in New York. He was soon in possession
of the valuable beast, the speed of which he took special
pains to improve.

Nora, whose singular demeanor at any other time
would have been commented upon, declared that she could
not longer stay in Jefferson. A few days after the family
was settled in Sheppard's house, she went to live with her
aunt in Ohio.

The day after the fire a telegram for Montcalm came
to Break o' Day, stating that his mother was dead and
naming the date of her funeral. In the burying-ground
by Green's orchard they placed the son in whom she had
trusted.

Could he have arisen from his resting-place and stood
upright, he might have viewed the house in which he had
lost his peace of mind and his hope of eternity. Had he
taken two steps, he would have been above the body of
his victim. If withdrawing his gaze from the spot
beneath which lay the disfigured forehead and cloven
brain, he had turned it to the right would have rested
on the cottage which sheltered Ratke, whose lethargic,
nearly-demented condition of mind he had helped to produce.

One night Jake Sheppard, who was something of a
hunter, was cooning in Mrs. Green's woods when he was
guided by his dog to a tree which had a large hollow.
Ordinarily Jake was not a rigid respecter of the law. He
procured an ax and chopped down the tree as speedily as
possible, that he might secure the game before his unwarranted
cutting of the timber was discovered. As the fall
of the tree did not frighten the coon from his refuge, Jake
cut into the body, which in that place was but a shell.
He was both surprised and chagrined when the ax struck
a metallic substance which took from it a deep nick.

"What blamed fool has been a-stuffin' an auger in
here?" he exclaimed, pulling the designated tool from
its place of secretion. His astonishment increased as he
drew out some clothes and, lastly, a long pocket-book,
which, upon examination, he saw contained a large roll of
bills. He thought at once of the robbery in July, and,
forgetting the coon, started for Mrs. Green's house. Owing
to the deafness of Mrs. Green and the timidity of William
Henry Harrison, who never quite recovered from his terror
of the midnight visitor by whom his master had been
slain, Sheppard was some time in securing an answer to
his knocks and calls. Mrs. Green, however, was at last
aroused by the half-wit, who broke the fastening to her
bedroom door and entered her room for protection, Jake
went to her window, made known his errand, and was admitted
to the house. The only reward which he received
from the widow was forgiveness for his depredation in
her timber. Shortly after this event he called at the
cottage by the church and left an envelope directed to the
major. The envelope contained fifty dollars in currency
and a badly spelled note which stated that Sheppard was
going away from the neighborhood and begged that Ratke
would accept the money as a token of regard.

The major rallied in part from the stupor which chained
him in the few days succeeding the fire. He made an
auction, and sold his personal property. When Taylor was
taken away by a Jackson horseman, who bought him for
four hundred dollars, Ratke with sadness watched the
handsome animal, trotting behind the owner's sulky as he
was led up the road. He paid first his hired men, with
the exception of Sheppard, who could not be found. The
remainder of his money he distributed among his creditors,
who were numerous. Most of them were content to
allow him time for his fortunes to mend, but a few gave
warning that, unless payment was speedily made, they
would cause him trouble. This insulting language revived
a portion of his old-time spirit. He wrote them letters,
stating his intention to liquidate every dollar of his
indebtedness, but affirming his resolution not to pay a
cent of costs for legal proceedings. "Those who would
be first," he said, "should be last."

Ratke sought work and found it.

His former hired men saw him coming home night
after tight, stoop-shouldered and listless. They took a
job of grubbing from Holmes for twelve dollars and told
him to let it to Ratke for twenty, and they would make
up the difference to him. They instructed him also to
say nothing of their connection with the affair to Ratke,
who, should he be made aware of it, would be certain to
refuse the charity. The major accepted Holmes's offer
and labored with all his strength at the grubbing.

Manie, on applying in several districts for a position
as teacher, found that the fall terms of country schools
were almost invariably conducted by those who had been
engaged in the spring. She then obtained a place to
work in the family of Osborne.

The habits of Ratke had changed with the circumstances
which surrounded him. He was silent, but apparently
not thoughtful. No longer in his moments of leisure did
he sit with his left leg thrown over the arm of his rocking-chair,
his chin resting on his hand, and his elbow on his
knee. No longer did he speculate or philosophize. he
seemed to be again sinking, with his grief forgotten, into
a gradual and peaceful decline. When he talked, which
was seldom, it was concerning business matters; and his
former force of delivery was entirely wanting. All that
seemed to attract his special notice was the absence of
Manie, who came home every Saturday night and remained
until Monday morning. He would sometimes
ask what day of the week it was, and on receiving an
answer would sit silent some minutes and then repeat his
question. Mrs. Grippin, who feared that he was going
into insanity or idiotcy, longed to hear again the tiresome
theories which she had once detested. With the hope of
seeing him once more at his studies, she borrowed a work
on physics and some scientific journals, which she placed
where she imagined they would come under his observation,
but her ruse was unavailing. He did not noiice
them until they were alluded to by his sister, when he
picked them up, apparently without interest, and threw
them down with a sigh.

Manie, although she was obliged to do all the work in
the family of Osborne, who had seven children and one
hired man, on being informed of her uncle's dangerous
apathy came home every night and returned in the
morning. Ratke showed the first pleasure which he
had exhibited for weeks. No matter how tired he was,
when he had finished his toil for the day, he walked up
the road to meet her. His object was not to talk, nor
did it seem to be to hear her, for he was an indifferent
listener. Satisfied with her presence, he desired no
exchange of words. His instinct to be near her was like
that of the dog which silently follows his master, or that
of the dying horse which, when turned loose that he may
have room to struggle, totters back to breathe his last in
his familiar stall. Years before, he had told her stories
while she had sat on his knee and combed his hair.
Now he had childishly asked her to do again as she had
done then. She humored his whim, and it was seldom
that he had to remind her of his wish.

Mrs. Green, who wailed until after seeding to thresh
her grain, one day dispatched William Henry Harrison
to secure Ratke's assistance. The next morning the
major with his pitchfork appeared early at the house of
his old enemy. He was given a place on the bundle
stack, but through the intervention of his friend, Jim
Turner, he was allowed the easy duty of holding bags.
At noon Jim was obliged to leave on account of a
previous promise which he had made to Osborne.

William Henry Harrison, Sparks and Wingscheut were
on the straw-stack. Throughout the forenoon the halfwit
had worked by the carrier, in the language of Wingscheut,
"vith his mouth vite open ketchin, all te chaff."
After dinner the major noticed the poor fellow toiling
away in the same uncomfortable place. "Sparks," he
shouted, "why don't you go up and change with him?"
"I don't have to," replied Sparks.

"Come down here, William Henry Harrison," called
Ratke, " I will change with you. You can hold bags."

The major took the position which had been occupied
by the half-wit, who slid down the stack and was buried
in the litterings at the bottom, from which he soon
emerged. Sparks motioned to the feeder, with whom, on
the night of the expedition to Wallace's, the major had
quarreled over the disposition of the horse-thieves in
case they were captured. The driver, in turn, received
the signal from the feeder, the horses bent their heads
and tugged, the machine sang more loudly, and every
man about it bestirred himself anew. The straw rolled
in great masses up the carrier, to the head of which a
suffocating cloud of dust was borne by the wind.

The major, whose temper and dignity were aroused,
stood at his post, too proud to ask for relief. The straw
gathered in a wall behind him, and Wingscheut lazily or
purposely let it fall back, so that he was obliged to
pitch back large quantities of it the second time. At
each one of the huge forkfuls which he had to take his
body trembled, and he wondered how much longer he
could endure the strain. Most of the hands were busily
occupied, and those who were not bestowed little sympathy
on the old man in his weakness so heroically and pitifully
trying to keep up an appearance of strength. He
was at the point of exhaustion, when the threshing was
finished and the machine suspended motion. Without
waiting for his supper or his coat and vest, which, of course,
he had stripped off, he went away from the barn-yard,
his breathing difficult, his eyes blinded and his face
blackened with dirt.

"Guess Jerusalem got about enough," said the Oakville
man, loud enough for Ratke to hear, "I ain't sorry
neither. It ain't any worse for him to work than it is for
me."

"This ain't makin' wagons," remarked Sparks.

The words rankled deep in the majors breast, as with
his pitchfork on his shoulder he went slowly home. He
was hurt most by the grim satisfaction with which Sparks
spoke of his downfall. On his farm, surrounded by his
books and his inventions, he could smile at riddles;
but now, removed from his defenses, he could not 
endure it.

Mrs. Gnppin had gone to visit Mrs. Boyle, with whom
she expected to stay that night. Manie, who had finished
her work for Osborne, received her uncle with expressions
of pity. She brought some water and washed the dirt
from his face and neck. While she was combing the chaff
from his hair, a constable came to serve a summons on
him in behalf of the Empire Machine Company.

"The completion of disgrace," said Ratke, after the
man had gone. " I cannot pay them. Judgment will be
rendered against me, and I must have it thrown in my
teeth that my promises are lies. How much more! Oh,
God, how much more can I endure!"

"Let me comb the chaff from your hair," said Manie.

"No," answered the major, taking his hat and going
out of the house. He went straight to the little blacksmith
shop and stood before it. The sun, now a reddish
ball, stripped of its fiery spikes, seemed lying in a slight
depression of the landscape, as if it had rolled thither
from one of the declivities between which it rested. Its
latest rays were permitted to fall on Ratke by the parting
of a strip of cloud, which was drawn asunder like curtains
on a stage. The major's gaze rested longest on the buildings
which had been erected on his former farm. The
windows of the house threw back among the apple trees,
by which it was partly hidden, the rays of the sun, whose
splendid reflections glimmered like wondrous lanterns
among the branches. From Green's woods, which were
red and yellow in the cloak of fall, came the voice of
William Henry Harrison, who was calling the cows. A
night-hawk swept high over the major's head, carrying
its mournful cry over his desolated and rebuilded
homestead.

He opened the door of the shop and entered. Inside
were a few tools which had been left by the blacksmith
who had previously owned the lot. These were a workbench,
an anvil, two saw-horses and two hammers. The
blacksmith evidently had worked some in wood; and, in
fact, such was the case, for he had been exorbitant in his
charges, and his trade afforded him but a meager
subsistence. On the workbench was Ratke's one-man saw,
which was badly rusted. Taking a hammer, the major
loosened the saw-blade from the frame and fastened it
with a strap to a strong hickory pole, the upper part of
which he nailed firmly to the wall. He tied a small rope
to the other end of the saw and pulling it until the stiff
pole bent far back, he made it fast to a ring in the opposite
wall, leaving the saw stretched horizontally within about
two feet of the floor. His next movement was to place
nearly under the saw a saw-horse on which he rested his
head so that his throat was within a few inches of the
sharp saw-teeth. Satisfied that the arrangements for
suicide were complete, he arose to take his farewell of
terrestrial things.

Once more he stepped out into the cool evening air.
The sun had disappeared, and its light had ceased to tint
the clouds along the western horizon, but it was reflected
from the stray patches which were moving slowly near the
zenith.

"Ah," he said, "the cloud at the horizon is as red as
the one at the zenith. It does not appear so to me, because
I am not in a proper position to see its brilliancy.
If the light of merit has fallen on me and my invenlions,
the world has not been in a situation to recognize
it."

To no purpose had his philosophy been neglected; at
the last hour it persistently returned, demanding that he
should harbor it for a brief space before he and it took
their final separation. It mingled with his every observation;
it asserted itself in the arrangement of the machine
for his destruction.

He prepared for a last look at earth, which twilight was
plunging in partial obscurity.

"Oh, Trace, Trace!" he exclaimed, as his eyes fell on
the graveyard, "why did you shatter my faith in you?
It was you that first broke my old heart, and it has been
cracking and crumbling ever since. I would I were with
you, and Nature, not my hand, had sent me there."

Resolutely he went inside the shop. He would see no
more the fair landscape in its autumnal beauty; he was
hearing for the last time the night-hawk, the solemn notes
of which were a fitting preliminary to the approaching
tragedy. In the morning, or, perhaps, that night, they
would find him with his throat hacked and, it might be,
entirely cut in twain. He crawled under the saw and
rested his head on the saw-horse. He raised a scythe to
strike a blow which would allow the hickory spring to pull
the saw across his throat.

Some one jerked him back, tipping over the saw-horse.
Manie's arms were about his neck, her face close to his,
her soothing voice in his ear. After pulling him gently
away she struck the rope with the scythe. The vicious
force with which the spring propelled the saw showed
how deadly an implement of destruction the major had
planned.

"What made you interrupt me?" cried the major.
"The world has no use for James Ratke! Wherever I
am, I am in the way. I am refuse in the economy of
Nature, refuse which her creatures abhor, but which she
will not remove. I will remove myself! Go away,
Manie! Go away, I tell you!"

"Uncle James, Uncle James," pleaded Manie, "do not
act so! Come into the house."

"You, too, have become my enemy," said Ratke. "No
friend of mine would like to prolong my wretched existence.
I thought that I had suffered until I had no further capacity
for suffering, but sensation only slept. It racks me now
as it racked me before my mind fell into torpidity, when
I sat on the log watching my burning wagon. Oh, Manie I
Must I, must I fall into that stupor again? Must I, my
God! Must I see my mind, like my fortunes, waste away,
leaving me a wreck and a wretch indeed?"

"Trust in God," said Manie. "He can rescue you
from any trouble."

"God!" echoed the major, "God has deserted me
utterly; utterly, utterly," he added with an accent of
incescribable despair. "Where is my farm on which I prided
myself? Where are my horses and cattle? Where are
my books, which were my study and my comfort? Where
are my inventions, which I would have given my life to
save? Where is Trace, the trusted son of my comrade,
whom I loved better than myself? His mutilated body
is in that graveyard! He died in destroying my all! If
I could forget! If I only could! 'The waters are come
in unto my soul.'"

"Come in," said Manie, pulling him toward the door.

The major went passively to the house, where Manie
induced him to be seated. "'The Lord will not cast off
forever,'" she said, "'but, though he cause grief yet will
he have compassion, according to the multitude of his
mercies.'"

"You talk of consolation," replied Ratke, rising from
his chair and striding restlessly about the room. "There
is no consolation for me. 'The sorrows of death compass
me.' I will not take my wretched life to-night, because I
could take only the bodily part. I would I could place
those saw teeth against my soul! I would annihilate myself,
for I could meet annihilation firmly. This old body
I can bring to the grave, but I cannot touch the after
life. No. I must keep this sensation, sensation which
gives me no pleasure, only pain, eternal pain, I am like
an old harp which was once an instrument of melody, but
which now yields the harshest of sounds. Mirth, pleasure,
rest, they are for me neither now nor in eternity!"

"You have no reason to be so hopeless," said Manie. 
"God has promised to help those who trust in Him.
'Whoso hearkeneth unto Me shall dwell safely and shall
be quiet from fear of evil.'

"'He hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of
the afflicted, neither hath He hid his face from him. But
when he cried unto Him, He heard.'"

"What have I rendered unto Him in my prosperity,"
said Ratke, "that He should help me now? I never openly
acknowledged Him. When wealth and friends were
mine, I depended on my own resources with little solicitude
for God's assistance. I said, 'I will get wisdom;'
and that wisdom I worshipped. Now, when all my persecutors
have overtaken me between the straights, he has
left me to be extricated by my wisdom."

"You have fulfilled part of the Lord's requirements,"
said Manie. "'Is not this the fast that I have chosen, to
loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens
and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every
yoke? Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and that
thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy house, when
thou seest the naked that thou cover him?'"

"It was not enough," answered the major, "or I should
have support in this hour. He laughs at my calamity.
'He hath thrown down and hath not pitied.' 'He hath
made me desolate and faint all the day.' I might call,
but he would not answer. Oh, Manie, how can I live?
'My heart is like wax!'"

"You will feel better to-morrow," said Manie. "When
I am teaching school, we shall have more money. We
will pay up these little debts, and how much comfort we
will take, reading our books and studying together. We
will get some tools in the shop for you. Uncle James,
and you can work at your inventions as you used to
do."

"I shall never know comfort again," said Ratke. "Is
it nothing to lose one's entire possessions, to see perishing
what one prizes more than property, to see wealth, position,
friendships, aspirations, all shivered in succession,
and the ruins heaped in ashes on one's head? My
neighbors who have given me financial help laugh
at me. They sneer at my Jerusalem wagon and crack
jokes about my one-man saw. I cannot endure it. I
shall die or go insane. 'The pains of hell have got hold
upon me.'"

"'The sorrows of hell compassed me about,'" said
Manie. "'The snares of death prevented me. In my
distress I called on the Lord and my cry came before him,
even unto his ears.'"

"My sighs are many, and my heart is faint," said the
major. "There is anguish in reflection. Lure me into
forgetfulness by song, Manie."

"Shall I sing one which John composed?" asked
Manie.

"Anything," answered Ratke. "Sit close by me."

The room was quite dark, for Manie had not yet lighted
a lamp. She seated herself by Ratke, who had ceased
his violent pacing of the floor. The scene through
which she had passed put a tremulous pathos into her
voice.

"A minstrel sang often Euterpa's gay song
    Where the board of the feast was outspread,
Where the floor of the hall 'neath a great courtly throng
    Bent and swayed to the dancers' light tread.
Sweet notes which were welcomed, applauded and famed
    Came from the musicians' skilled art.
Their melody all except pleasure disclaimed;
It mixed with the revel where mirth was untamed,
    But it touched not a comfortless heart.

'Hits fame and his fortune all perished away.
    Those who in his prosperous days
Were loudest in flattery scoffed at his lay.
    And hushed was their liberal praise.
He thought of his laurels, whose life was so brief,
    In his gloomy and utter despair
No hand was extended to give him relief.
'My burden,' he faltered, in accents of grief,
    'Is greater than I can bear.'

"He bowed low his head and he threw down his lyre
    In a hall where its music had rung.
He felt that forever had left him that fire
    With which in his youth he had sung.
Oh, deep was the anguish that swept o'er him then
    When no solace his broken heart propped;
He mused on his trouble, remote from all men;
But mournfully from its mute corner again
    He picked up the lyre he had dropped.

"Out on the wide world the sad measure was borne,
    And the healing of pain was its goal.
It came from a bosom by misery torn;
    It raised many a low-smitten soul.
Then woe left its sack-cloth forgotten and smiled;
    The transgressor bent on his knee;
And men from the shades of their crimes were beguiled;
'Lord, now it is plain,' said the minstrel, a child;
    'I know why Thou chastenest me.'"

"Comb my hair, Manie," said the major. " Sit on my
knee and comb my hair. Let me think that these are the
olden days, that you are a little girl, that I have not lost
my place, that I still have hope for my inventions. Oh,
this is luxury! What a soothing power there is in the
comb."

Manie, who was crying under cover of the darkness,
tenderly combed and brushed his hair.
