CHAPTER XXXIII.

THE HOUSE DIVIDED AGAINST ITSELF.

Of the obsequies of Senator Mallard it is necessary to
say little. They were conducted with imposing ceremonies
and attended by many of his associates in the
Senate.

After the funeral Mrs. Boyle returned to her home.
The question of heirship was some time in being
satisfactorily settled. Durgenson's wife, who, as has been
stated, was Mallard's niece, would not recognize John's
right to the property. She and her husband lived in one
part of the house, and John and Mrs. Baldwin in another.

"I tell you," said Mrs. Baldwin to John one day, "we
want to look out for Durgenson. He is anxious to get
you out of his way and has been ever since you were born.
That night when you were at Mrs. Boyle's, I believe, just
as much as I believe anything, that he meant to kill you
when you went to look at the horse."

"How could he harm us?" asked John.

"By putting poison in the water we drink, or in our
food," replied Mrs. Baldwin. "I tell you, John, we had
better not stay in the same house with them. You don't
know anything about him. He is so treacherous. You
remember how he tried to get you away from us. I haven't
the least doubt that he meant to lure you to some
out-of-the-way place and kill you. One house is not large
enough for that family and us."

"What are we to do until the estate is settled?" asked
John.

"Get them out of the house, or go ourselves," answered
Mrs. Baldwin.

"How can we do that?" inquired John.

"If we cannot eject them by legal process, let us leave,"
said Mrs. Baldwin.

"Ma'am," said the servant-girl, appearing in some
excitement, "Mrs. Durgenson told me not to dust the parlor,
but to keep right out, because her girl would attend to
that."

"Which parlor?" asked Mrs. Baldwin.

"The south one," answered the servant. "I ain't been
in the north one."

"You see," said Mrs. Baldwin, "she is getting very bold.
She commenced it the day of the funeral."

"I will go in with you," said John, "and we will dust
that room."

While John was dusting the furniture, he heard the
querulous voice of Mrs. Durgenson, saying, "I don't mean
to have them much longer in my house. Durgenson, if
you had the proper spirit, you'd tell them to go. You
wonder they like to stay. You're as good as pie to them
all the time."

"There isn't any use in being cranky," said Durgenson.
"You'll never make anything by that. I can't get
them out without the law and we'd better wait a little."

"Now, Durgenson, you do take things so easy,"
continued the whining voice. "It ain't pleasant to have folks
you don't like in your own house. You could tell 'em to
go, and, if they don't go, put 'em out. You could throw
that Wrengell out, couldn't you?"

"Why, yes," replied Durgenson. "As to that, I could
throw him out. I'd risk that, but there'd be an after-clap.
He'd have be arrested for assault and battery right
straight. I'll manage it by and by in a better way."

"How do you mean?"

"Never you mind, Maggie. I'll attend to that. It
isn't policy to use violence."

John had been with Mrs Baldwin in the sitting-room
but a short time when the servant reappeared.

"Ma'am, the clothes is gone from the north bedroom."

"Why, that is Mr. Durgenson's part of the house," said
Mrs. Baldwin.

"No," said the servant, "your north bedroom where
you sleep."

"Can you not find them?" asked Mrs. Baldwin.

"No," replied the servant, "they ain't nowhere as I
can see."

"I will get some clothes of my own uptown," said
John. "It is as you say. Aunt Martha. We cannot live
long in the same house with the Durgenson family. They
will be robbing us of our cook-stove and our flour. How
did they happen to live here with you?"

"They came soon after your grandfather was hurt,"
said Mrs. Baldwin. " They said they wanted to help take
care of him. I knew they were looking after the property
they expected to get. George was not in his right mind,
and I could not turn them out, for Mrs. Durgenson was
more nearly related to him than I. So, you see, nothing
could be done. George did not fancy them, but, if he
expressed an opinion, who could prove that it was anything
but the raving of an insane man? They were not offensive
at first, and, indeed Mr. Durgenson has not been so any
of the time. But, as soon as George died, Mrs. Durgenson
began to show her disposition. None of George's
nephews are living, and she, being his only niece, has
always considered herself his heir. You can hardly
imagine how much your appearance has disappointed her
and pleased me. If my niece did die away from her
kindred and in poverty, my grand-nephew is restored to me,
and, I trust, will be to his rights."

"Ma'am," said the servant-girl as she again opened the
door, "all the carpet upstairs is gone, and somebody's
took every wash-bowl and pitcher and the looking-glasses
and one of the mattresses and all the clothes on the beds.

"I will tell Durgenson to put a stop to that," said John.
"I will stand it no longer."

When he inquired for Durgenson, the wife of that
gentleman informed him that her husband had gone uptown.

"When will he be back?" asked John.

"I can't tell anything about it," replied Mrs. Durgenson,
rolling her head to one side in a wearied manner. "I don't
always ask him how long he's going to stay."

The red-headed servant-girl, who was sweeping, rolled
a cloud of dust into John's face and looked cunningly at
her mistress, whose countenance expressed approval of
the act. John shifted his position and said, "I would
like to see him as soon as he comes. In the mean time
you will please leave the household articles in their present
places until the settlement of the estate."

Mrs. Durgenson again tipped her head to one side, this
time in defiance. The servant once more turned her
broom toward John, and, suppressing a giggle, sent the
dirt flying about him in profusion.

"Oh," thought John, "we have met before."

"Oblige me by telling Mr. Durgenson of my visit," he
said, "and inform him that I would like to see him at the
earliest opportunity."

"I ain't used to being a servant," said Mrs. Durgenson.
"You'll have to see him yourself. Jule, there's
some dirt in that corner."

"Yes," said Julia Wallace, filling the air with floating
particles, which she energetically directed for John's
inhalation.

"Good-morning," said John, passing through the door.

Mrs. Durgenson and her servant exchanged glances
and tittered, and, when John had gone a few steps, burst
into loud laughter.

"The idea," said Mrs. Durgenson, purposely elevating
her tone so that it could be heard by her late visitor, "of
a man of his birth telling me what to do with my property
that my uncle left me."

The ill-feeling between the two households was shared
by the servant-girls, and by them less repressed than by
their employers. Usually servants have the human
aversion to doing unnecessary work, but in this case the
general rule was inapplicable. Both Julia and Mrs. Baldwin's
Ellen were anxious to have the care of as large a
share of the house as possible. The south parlor, the
hall and the library were the most frequent occasions of
rivalry. At the beginning of the war the girl who entered
the room first was allowed undisputed possession until
the renovation was completed. This tacit agreement
stimulated each hurriedly to wash the morning dishes in
order first to reach the contested field. Gradually they
rose earlier. By Mrs. Durgenson's permission Julia,
leaving her breakfast dishes unwashed, "stole a march"
on the hated Ellen. Next morning the enterprising Ellen,
resolved not to be beaten, swept the room before another
individual in the house was astir. Slurs, innuendoes and
directly personal remarks began to be used frequently by
both parties.

Although Ellen had a considerable amount of fighting
Irish blood, she was not as aggressive as Julia, who
seemed bent on precipitating a quarrel. The encroachments
on the rights of John and Mrs. Baldwin by Wallace's
promising daughter, who, in truth, had more spirit
than her father or her brother, were annoying in the
extreme. She came to Ellen's kitchen and helped herself
to a panful of flour, saying that the Durgenson supply was
exhausted and she had as much right to this as Ellen,
because Mrs. Durgenson's uncle had bought it. She carried
away the entire stock of pear preserves, for Mrs.
Durgenson liked pear preserves, and not a single can had
been provided her. She took Ellen's good broom and
left an old one in its place. The kitchen where she
worked had bad cracks in the floor, and no old stub
could dig them out. The chamber in the wing which
Mrs. Baldwin had reserved for the use of herself and
John was steadily stripped of its belongings. Fruit cans,
dishes, bedding and pictures disappeared, some secretly,
some openly, into the rooms allotted to the Durgensons.
The crisis came when Julia called after a kettle which
Ellen had used since the beginning of her service.
"I can't spare that," said Ellen. "It's all the one I've got
like it."
"You can if you have to, I guess," remarked Julia.
"I've got to have it, because the big kettle I use don't
fit on the stove good."
"You're a-getting everything," said Ellen. "Don't
you want the stove and my table?"
"Yes," replied Julia, "I'm a-going to have 'em before
long, too, but I shan't use the stove, because mine is
better. You'll have to be getting out of here before
long. Mrs. Durgenson says so."
"I guess I shan't," screamed Ellen, grasping the kettle
and putting it behind her. "I'm a-going to stay right
here. When you get Mr. Lehmann out of this house,
you'll know it."

"I'll know it about next week," retorted Julia, bobbing
her head furiously and approaching Ellen, who backed
away with the kettle. "There ain't any Mr. Lehmann
here. That's John Wrengell, and he's a nobody. He
stole a horse and got chased out of Break o'Day. He
come to see me once. I told him to keep right away, for
I wouldn't have anything to do with him, -- the scurf o'
the earth. I'd like to claw him."
"I don't believe it," returned Ellen. " He wouldn't
look at you, nor the likes of you, you great freckled thing.
You've stole everything you could get your hands on, and
I know you'd lie, too."

"You miserable Irish amount-to-nothing," cried Julia,
advancing toward her, "you want to shut right up. Hand
me that kettle in a hurry."

"What is all this about?" asked Mrs. Baldwin, coming
to the relief of the frightened Ellen.

"She won't let me have that kettle," said Julia, "and
I'm a-going to have it. I ain't got a big kettle that fits
my cook-stove."

"We cannot spare that kettle," said Mrs. Baldwin.
"You must get along the best way you can."

"I ain't afraid of you both," said Julia. "Hand that
kettle here."

"Get out of this kitchen, or I will have you arrested,"
said John, suddenly appearing. "You have taken
things enough. I warn you not to molest this part of
the house."

"Oh, you low-lived galoot," said Julia, as she took her
departure, "I guess I'm as respectable as the Wrengells.
There never was a decent one amongst you. I've heard
all about your tribe, you son of a thief. Mrs. Durgenson'll
have you out of here in a week."
"Durgenson has avoided me for several days," said
John to Mrs. Baldwin. "I must see him and put a stop
to these annoyances. I would rather talk to him than to
the women. They always get the advantage of me."
As he was passing the library in pursuance of his intention,
he heard steps inside. Peering in, he saw Mrs.
Durgenson standing on a chair in the act of tearing off
the scraps which Mallard had pasted on the walls. These
clippings, which were very valuable to political and
biographical students, he prized especially because they had
been arranged by his grandfather's hand. Such a desecration
of his venerated ancestors memory filled John
with indignation, and he was quick to show his displeasure.

"Mrs. Durgenson," he said, "I cannot allow that paper
to be torn off. It was pasted there by my grandfather,
and there it must stay, at least until the court decides
against my claim."

"Why, this is my house," said Mrs. Durgenson, beginning
to cry. "It's a pity if I can't do what I want to in
my own house." As she spoke she tore from the wall a
strip of paper, which fell to the floor.

"You must leave this room immediately," said John.

"You'll get yourself into trouble," said the angry
woman, sobbing violently. "There'll be somebody after
you. I'll tell Durgenson of this, and he'll fight you. He
can do it."

"Tell him to come now," said John. "I will wait here
in the library for him."

"Oh, Durgenson," wailed the wife, as she came into
the presence of her husband, "I've been insulted in my
own house."

"Who's been insulting you?" asked Durgenson.

"It's that low-bred Wrengell," replied Mrs. Durgenson
between her sobs. "The library looks awful with
those dirty papers on. I wanted to tear 'em off and fix
it decent. He--he wouldn't let me. Oh, Durgenson
will you let the wife of your bosom be insulted in her own
house?"

"Now, wife of my bosom," said Durgenson, with a
smile, "you get insulted very easy. In the first place,
you hadn't ought to have been in there tearing off the
paper, and in the next place, when he told you to go, you
ought to have gone without a word."

"I never thought that of you, Durgenson," whimpered
the wife. "You take up sides with him."

"Pshaw, now," said Durgenson, "if he had really insulted
you, I would whip that paper off the wall with him.
But, if I should pound him without any cause, it would
hurt our claim to the estate. Just let me tell you, Maggie.
Let him work and have it his own way for a while. What
do we care if the paper stays on a week or two? And I
wouldn't have the girl snake away any more quilts or truck
from their part of the house."

"I can't be so spiritless," said Mrs. Durgenson. "It
ain't natural for me. I can't bear to have that jail-bird
around. Only think of it, what a low descent! We know
the pedigree of the Wrengells."

"I'll admit all that," said Durgenson, lowering his voice,
"but come here, Maggie. This is confidential, you know.
It mustn't be lisped, even to the girl. We can get the
start of him better to have him think we're friendly.
Between you and me, he's got strong testimony to back his
claim. No matter if it's false, it will count all the same
in law. There isn't any doubt in my mind but what he'll
get it."

"And we can't have Uncle George's property?" asked
Mrs. Durgenson, again beginning to cry.

"Not unless we're lucky or mighty sharp," said Durgenson.
"Don't cry your eyes out, Maggie. Something may
turn up for us yet. He may go out in a rain-storm and
catch his death of cold, or the cars may run over him, or
he may eat too many vegetables and get downed by the
colic."

"I don't just want him to die," said Mrs. Durgenson.

"No, nor I," said Durgenson, " but, if he does, we can't
help it. We didn't want your Uncle George to die. He
did, though, and we wouldn't have any objection to tak-
ing the property. Our chances are a good deal better if
we can stay right here. So, you see, we better not quarrel
with him, not stir him up to push his claim very fast."

"He said he wanted to see you in the library," said
Mrs. Durgenson.

"I'd better go, too," said Durgenson. "I'll smooth
matters over. And, Maggie, tell Jule not to quarrel any
more with that girl in the south part. She'll be scratching
her eyes out the next thing we hear."

"Durgenson, I have been wishing to see you for a week,"
was John's greeting, "For some reason you have avoided
me."

"Oh, no, not a bit of it," said the cattle-buyer, stroking
his well-trimmed beard with what seemed the essence of
good-nature, "What can I do for you?"

"Keep your wife and your servant in your own part of
the house," said John, "They come to this part and take
everything they can find. I have endured it for a long
time, because I disliked to speak to them about the matter
and you have kept out of my way. I have stood it as
long as I will."

"I'm sorry about that," said Durgenson. "It must be
the girl. The women, you know, have got to sputter
around and quarrel anyway. We hadn't ought to mind
them. You and I can't afford to have a falling out just
because the women don't agree."

"That talk sounds very well," replied John, "It does
not, however, make up for the loss of household articles
which are necessities."

"What have you missed?" inquired Durgenson.

"Too many things for enumeration," replied John.
"Never mind what has been taken. If the evil is stopped
now, I shall be satisfied."

"But I shan't be satisfied," said Durgenson. "Make
out a list of what is missing, and I will bring them back,
or pay you for them."

"I will take no pay for them," said John, ashamed that
he had spoken harshly to a man who was so willing to
rectify a wrong which he did not perpetrate.

"Yes," said Durgenson, "that is no more than square.
Now, Wrengell, or Lehmann (excuse me, I didn't think),
why don't you lock up these rooms? You know what
women folks are. It may bother me to keep them within
bounds."

"The keys are missing," replied John. "We have not
seen them since last Tuesday."

"I wonder if that Jule has got them," remarked Durgenson.
"I saw some keys hanging up in the sitting-room.
Stay here a minute till I look." He very shortly returned
with a bunch of keys.

"Those are the ones," said John. "Keep those which
belong to your part of the house."

"I don't care anything about them," said Durgenson.

"I was thinking about your claim to-day. It looks plausible
enough, so that it may make us a good deal of trouble.
That Dabney would swear to a lie as quick as he'd yarn
it about his salves and dopes. What will you take for
your interest here, Lehmann?"

"I do not care to dispose of it," replied John. "I had
rather have my honorable lineage acknowledged than to
possess all the real estate in Lansing without the respectable
lineage. If I sell out, it will look like a confession
that I am an impostor."

"What will you give us for our interest?" asked Durgenson.
"A lawsuit would be apt to eat a hole in what
Uncle George earned."

"I will not give very much," answered John, "not
more than five thousand dollars."

"That is pretty small," said Durgenson, "considering
the amount of the property. Give me a little time to
think it over, Lehmann."

Durgenson, seemingly in the best of humor, went to his
sitting-room. Half an hour after their conversation John
was passing through the hall when he heard a strange
voice saying in the adjacent parlor, "There's no use of
being worried about this matter, Mrs. Durgenson. It's
my duty to take him with me and I shall have to. If I
could help it, I would."

"Oh, Durgenson," wailed the wife, "you're going to
leave your Maggie! Oh, Durgenson, dear, when will
you be back?"

"Before a great while," responded Durgenson cheeringly.
"I haven't hired anybody to steal horses. Some
thieves killed a man in Illinois when he tried to stop them
from taking his horse. I'm not responsible for it, and I
can prove it. Can I speak a minute with my wife?"

"Talk away," said the officer, for the man was, indeed,
a minion of the law. "Go to that side of the room if you
want to, but I can't let you go out of my sight."

The reader, if he chooses, may peruse the whispered
consultation, which was unintelligible to the officer and
to John.

"Maggie," said Durgenson, "Lehmann has got us foul.
He'll have this estate as sure as we're standing here. He
has offered us five thousand to give up our claim. It isn't
much, but you had better take it."

"We ought to see if we can't get something more," said
Mrs. Durgenson.

"No," said Durgenson; "if we do, some disagreeable
things will be brought up in court. We will lose the five
thousand dollars and pay out besides. I did play sharp
with him when he was a kid, Maggie, and we don't want
it talked about much. Sign off your interest for what he
offers."

"I'll have to interrupt you," said the officer. "Come
on."

"Hadn't you better stay to dinner?" asked Durgenson.
"We'll have it ready in a little while."

"No," said the officer, "I can't wait at all. It's nearly
time for the train. Get on your hat now."

"Oh, don't take him! Don't take my Hiram!" pleaded
Mrs. Durgenson, throwing her arms about her husband. " I
can't live without him."

"Oh, yes, you can," said the officer, motioning Durgenson
to go with him. "You'll flourish all right."

With many tears and apostrophic declarations of love
Mrs. Durgenson bade farewell to her husband, who, in
apparently good spirits, set out for Chicago to face the
charge which had been brought against him.

Mrs. Baldwin was rejoiced at the removal of the great
danger which, she said, had threatened them. She was
not afraid of poison when Durgenson was in jail. Mrs.
Durgenson, accepting her husband's advice, signed away
her interest in the property for the five thousand dollars
which was offered her. At her departure she took away
large quantities of household goods as souvenirs of her
Uncle George.

In a short time John was in undisputed possession of
the Mallard estate. He longed to hear specific news from
the Ratke neighborhood. The several letters which he
addressed to Manie were signed John and brought him no
answer. He did not reflect that his correspondent might
be ignorant or forgetful of the recent change in his name.
