CHAPTER XXXIV.

VERDURE RISING FROM THE ASHES.

The day following the frustrated attempt at suicide in
the blacksmith shop Ratke relapsed into his accustomed
reticence. He was too weak and lame for bodily labor
and too much dejected to talk. "The senility of age is
upon me," he said, when Manie had asked him to perfect
the churn, the invention of which he had contemplated
before the loss of his property.

It was not until the next morning that he regained anything
like the cheerfulness which had been once his habitual
mood. As he walked through the small enclosure
which had served the blacksmith as a garden, he saw a
maple tree, some of whose leaves the frosts of fall had
dyed with red, "In the midst of certain evils," he mused,
"the human family is like the leaves of that tree; the
more prominent ones are first touched by the frost of
misfortune. Phleet Takum, the Wallaces and my hired
men are all proof against what I have suffered." The
reflection, mournful as it was, consoled him greatly, for
it proved that his habit of philosophical thought, which
he had believed dead, had only slept. He remembered
the prospect of which Manie had spoken, that he and she
together could pursue the studies which he loved. He
felt that his powers were returning to him, and that it
would be a delight once more to apply them where Nature
had amplified their scope.

He went slowly back to the house. The open door
revealed the figure of a man who was sitting in a
rocking-chair.

"John," said the major, cordially greeting his former
hired man, "how did you come?"
"I drove out with my team," replied John.

"I thought you had forgotten us since you met with
your good fortune," said the major.

"No," replied John, "I have thought of you every
day, Major. I have had a great deal of business to attend
to, or I should have been here sooner. Would you like to
take a ride. with me? I mean all of you."

"I do not care for pleasure now," said the major sadly.
"I shall never be myself again, John. Bitterness is my
portion the remainder of my days. Still, I will go with you."

"I'd like a ride," said Mrs. Grippin. "I've had to
foot it ever since we lived here. Where is your team?"

"Behind the blacksmith shop," replied John.

"What in the world!" exclaimed Mrs. Grippin, as they.
came around the corner of the shop.

Her exclamation was caused by a perfect model of the
New Jerusalem, before which stood the major's favorite
team, Taylor and Bill. The major said not a word. He
eyed with admiration the New Jerusalem, its spotless paint,
the make of its wheels and its superior ironing. One
after another, he picked up the wheels and revolved them.
A single noticeable attribute of the old vehicle was missing,
the wailing squeak of the left hind wheel. The
major went to the horses' heads. He patted alternately
the noses of Taylor and Bill. He went back to the wagon,
lifted the wheels, examined the irons and returned to the
noses of the team. His actions were like those of a small
boy who hardly knows on which of several attractions to
bestow his notice.

"I beg of you to accept the team and wagon," said John.
"I wish to make a slight present to the old friend who
gave me the first social recognition I ever knew."

The major turned his back to the group and stood silent
for a moment.

"Come, James," said Mrs. Grippin sharply, "we're
waiting for a ride."

Ratke, clambering into the front box, at John's request
took the lines.

"Where did you get this wagon?" asked Mrs. Grippin.

"I got the model of Phelps," replied John, "and had it
made in Jackson."

"There's that patent-medicine man," said Mrs. Grippin,
who had been prevented by her low position from sooner
observing the pedestrian.

"You are just the man I want to see, Major," said
Panicky as Ratke stopped. "No, drive right along, I'll
climb in behind. Why, Lehmann," he exclaimed, seating
himself on the end-board, " you're out here, are you?
You can't tell who's who when you're ahead of this kind
of a wagon. I never saw one like it before. What kind
of a thing is it?"

"It is a wagon," said John, "a new kind."

"Gosh!" remarked Panicky, "I should think it was a
new kind. Where did you get the concern?"

"Sir," said the major, turning suddenly around, "I am
the inventor of this wagon."

"Oh, I beg your pardon," stammered Panicky. "It's
a blamed nice thing and I know it. Anybody with half
an eye can see that. Is your health pretty good, Mrs.
Grippin?" he inquired at the end of an embarrassing lull in
the conversation.

"Yes," said Mrs. Grippin, "I don't want to buy any
medicine."

"Oh, I wasn't thinking about that," Panicky protested.
"It has been a very sickly time and my stock of medicine
is almost out. I can't spare any except in extreme cases.
There's fever and ague and summer-complaint and hay-fever,
all running at once. It's, 'Dabney, I want some panacea,'
'Dabney, give me another bottle of that,' 'Dabney,
my family's lost without the panacea.' Yesterday a man
that had cut his thumb threatened to prosecute me. I
told him there was others that needed it worse than he
did."

"What's the use of lying so?" said Mrs. Grippin in
disgust.

There was a sound of rapid steps over the hard road
which stretched toward the church, and Sparks, with his
recovered Madge T., drove alongside the New Jerusalem.
Without slackening his speed he looked at Ratke, wondering
how in his poverty he could again drive his queer
equipage.

"Bought 'em back, have you, Major?" he called, as he
whisked triumphantly by.

"Charge!" cried the major.

The horses, remembering their education, instantly
sprang forward. Ratke maintained his balance, Mrs.
Grippin, Manie and John were thrown to the bottom of
the respective boxes which they occupied, while Panicky
was precipitated on his head in a puddle of water, with his
heels pointing upward and his satchels following him in
his descent. The gray Bill ran as usual, but Taylor after
the first jump surprised Ratke by settling down to a trot
which brought him steadily nearer the wheel of Sparks's
sulky.


"By George!" cried the major, in great excitement,
rising to his feet and with his whip extended, standing like
a picture of an ancient warrior on a chariot brandishing a
spear, "Look at him throw out his forefeet! Here's
the race you wanted, Sparks. Look out, I'm going by!"
he yelled as Madge T., seeing that she was losing ground,
raised both her forefeet in the air at once. "Where's
your fine-blooded Madge? What do you think of Wellington
stock now, Sparks?"

Ratke was still erect and still swinging his whip. His
hat had blown off, and his hair, which was several
inches long, stood out horizontally in the rush of air
occasioned by their speed. Madge's break hastened her
defeat, which, had she maintained her practiced gait, she
could not have avoided; and her nose was in a short
time behind the rear box of Ratke's wagon.

"James," screamed Mrs. Grippin, clutching the box,
"you act crazy. Quit your driving so fast!"

"All right, Maria. Shall I let him go by?" said Ratke,
who knew that Mrs. Grippin would be as averse as he to
the triumph of Sparks.

"Oh, do just as you want to," replied Mrs, Grippin in
a resigned manner. "You will any way."

"Step along there, Taylor!" sang the major with another
flourish of his whip. "Get down to it, boy! Steady
now."

"Let us stop here," said John, as they neared Ratke's
old homestead.

Sparks was walking his horse that he might not seem
to be an unsuccessful contestant of the race. Panicky
mudded and disconsolate, was with his satchels trudging
along in the rear.

The owner of the farm evidently had a desire, to bring
it as near as possible to its former aspect, for the buildings
were constructed after the model of those which were
burned. The three barns partly enclosed the same rectangle,
which was completed by the connecting fence, but
the cock on the central one was smaller, and his comb less
prominent. No change was visible in the tool-house.
Aside from the newness of its green paint, the club-house,
which, surmounted by a cupola, was particularly neat,
had sustained but one noticeable alteration, the ornamentation
and protection by a triple-pointed, instead of a
single-pointed, lightning-rod. The Gothic house with its
three sharp gables was as of old, except that it looked as
if it had been immersed in the fountain of youth, which
had given it new shingles, new chimneys and door-knobs,
had brightened the exterior of its walls and covered its
paintless spots. The saddest and only irremediable
injury which had been wrought was among the spruce trees,
the shriveled and blackened branches of which were
mournful reminders of the once thrifty grove. Those
nearest the house were limbless. Those farther on had
dusky, bare arms. Still nearer the road were the leaves
which had been left and which varied in color from red-
dish-brown to green, according to their distance from the
flames by which they had been scorched. Through the
desolation the house showed with a distinctness, which
brought vividly to the minds of those who had frequented
the place the catastrophe so destructive to its luxuriant
screen.

"Are you going into the yard?" asked Ratke.

"Yes," answered John, "we may as well look around."

In advance of the Ratkes, he went up the steps,
unlocked the sitting-room door and opened it.

"I would not do that," protested the major. "Gower
would not like it, if he knew it, I heard Durgenson had
sold it to him."

"I have his permission to go through the house," said
John.

The major hesitated no longer. "He has been in
Jackson these dozen years. I hardly thought he would
want to live here. Let us go into the parlor."

In the parlor were four bookcases closely resembling
those the loss of which the major had sustained, and they,
held many of the works which it had been his wont to
study. He could not resist opening them and examining
their contents.

"Here is a Tractacus de Veritate," he cried. "I
never saw but two copies of it before. One of them your
grandfather had," He busied himself with the book,
while Mrs. Grippin was in another part of the house and
John and Manie, sitting on the sofa, conversed in low
tones.

"I can disprove that line of argument," he said, putting
down the open volume, "Lord Herbert has made it
very easy for his guard to be beaten, down in that
passage."

"I have a paper for you to examine," said John,
extending a document, which the major seized. The paper
was the deed which Ratke had given Durgenson of his
farm. The major read it, put it into his pocket and
walked out of doors.

"How is that?" asked Mrs. Grippin, who had looked
over her brother's shoulder. "How did you get that
deed?"

"The major has not yet lost his place," replied John.

"The bond and deed were only a continuation of the
mortgage. I paid Durgenson the indebtedness and
he gave me the deed. He had made a verbal agreement with
Mr. Gower to sell the place at the expiration of the year
allowed by the law for redemption. But he could not
give a deed until after the sheriff's sale of the property.
I acquainted Mr. Gower with the circumstances, and I
induced him to have these buildings erected at my expense.
I was confident that the major would not prosecute me
for trespass. The bond and deed are not commonly well
understood. I consulted Fellows, the best lawyer in
Lansing, and he told me that many a man who had given
a deed and taken a bond had lost his property, because he
did not understand that those legal instruments are but
extensions of mortgages."

When the major returned, he was whittling some pieces
of pine.

"I have the plan of it, Manie," he said, "a plan which
must be successful."

"A plan of what?" asked Manie.

"Why, of the churn, to be sure," said Ratke, "What
did you think I meant? You see the dasher is fixed so
as to revolve. Loose as it is, it will turn, of course, in
the direction which offers the least resistance; and the
twisting shape of the paddles makes it incline downward
and to one side when a downward stroke is given, and
upward and to one side when an upward stroke is given.
As it goes downward, the cream is whirled one way; as
it goes upward, it is whirled the other way. This gives
an alternate rotary motion, all the benefits of the swing
churn without the tedious labor of working it. The quick
change in the circular motion is of special advantage.
The preservation of the butter grain and its speedy gathering
is a combination of results which will make my chum
ahead of anything yet invented."

After the delivery of this speech the major went into
the front yard, proceeded to the rear of the house and
directed his steps toward the grubs. At the left Daggett
and Brown were husking corn with the utmost speed.
Archer, apparently forsaken by his habit of laziness, was
maintaining a still swifter gait. Steady Jack Sheppard,
who never hurried, who never failed to do a good day's
work, was throwing out the ears at a uniform rate without
looking up, to the right, or to the left.

The major sought the seclusion of the grubs, where he
sat on a decayed log, meditating on the recent change in
his mood from suicidal despair to joyous serenity. In his
possession were the two-and-one-half sections, the fields,
woods and swamp which had been dear to him in the
prime of manhood and were dearer yet in his old age.
As he stepped from the grubs, how complete seemed the
restoration of his fortunes. The view, save the min of
the trees, was as it had been. In the swamp, much of
which had been protected by standing water or the dampness
of the ground, the course of the fire was plainly
marked. Ratke looked with such satisfaction as he never
had previously felt in the contemplation of his estate, on
the brown woods, the shocked corn, and the new wheat,
which was thick and promising. Jake was husking corn
exactly as he had been when Ratke entered the grubs.
Daggett and Brown were still energetically working.
Archer's hands, however, were moving very slowly, and
he was beginning a monotonous chant:

"Oh, horrible it is to relate,
The tale I have to tell,
About the cruel and hard fate.
That a young maid befell."

A noisy barking and yelping fell on Ratke's ear.
Philetus was dogging away from the vicinity of his house
a herd of cattle, among which were surely several former
tenants of the place.

"How natural that seems," thought the major. "He
must stay, for it would not seem like the old farm
without him."

The clanging of the upright saw, elicited by the vigorous
hammering of Mrs. Grippin, announced that dinner
was ready. Archer, Brown and Daggett came to the
house together, Daggett joking in his usual way, while
Jake followed them. At dinner it was plain to the major
that two things to complete the restoration of the ancient
state of affairs were lacking, the coarse repartee of the
hands, who, as they entered the house, ceased their
boisterous remarks, and the sharp criticism of Mrs.
Grippin, who would not gratify him by a caustic speech.
He wished that Daggett would anger her by a joke, or
that Archer would fire her wrath by digging an ugly
hollow in the butter, but neither hope was realized.

After dinner Ratke sauntered to the tool-house, where
he found the New Jerusalem, his one-man saw and a large
quantity of irons. He wondered where such a variety
of old wheels, bars, pinions and cranks had been collected.

When he returned to the house and entered the parlor,
John, who had been sitting on the sofa with Manie, moved
suddenly away from her.

"It has been my misfortune," said the major, "to destroy
one of Nature's forces."

"Is that so?" asked John, "How can you destroy a
force in Nature?"

"I misspoke myself," said Ratke. "I merely changed
its application."

"How did you change its application?" inquired
John.

"Gravity decreases," said the major, "as the square df
the distance increases. The absolute force of a center of
attraction is the intensity of force of attraction at a point
multiplied by the square of the distance, which equals L
cube divided by T square. When I came into this room,
you were so close to Manie that the distance between you
was incalculable. Now you are at least a yard away from
her.
