CHAPTER XXXVI.

IN THE ORCHARD AGAIN.

Among the many advantages which fiction, history and
recollection have over present reality one is that they
make time their servant, I have in a few paragraphs
sketched events which were several years in occurring;
and I have purposely omitted many details, the narration
of which would have been laborious to me and the perusal
of which would have been tedious to the reader. It was
in October that Ratke regained possession of his farm.
It was in the following May that the closing scenes of my
story occurred.

The warm spring night was a continuation of twilight.
There was mirth in the club-house, from which at intervals
came the sound of dancing and of a violin. All the hired
men of the previous year were there, for they were fond of
frequent reunions. Daggett, whose zest for practical jokes
seemed unbounded, had inherited from his grandfather a
silk tile, which was very tall and very old. This worn-out
hat he had by using much flattery sold to Archer and had
induced him to wear it to Break o'Day, where it and its
owner were greeted with yells of derision. The defrauded
purchaser on his return discovered that ink had been
secreted in the lining in such a manner that it had dripped
down and streaked his face with red. Daggett was saved
from a chastisement by the interference of the men, who
had much trouble in holding the infuriated Archer.

The major was in the tool-house whittling, tinkering and
philosophizing to his heart's content. He had removed
his coat and vest and his face was animated with interest.
On the floor were many pieces of newly whittled wood
and many cast irons. He was holding in an upright
position an S-shaped bar about his own height, which
he was giving the last few touches with his jack-knife

"This will greatly increase the modulus of the machine,"
remarked the old man to himself, as he surveyed his work.
"This saves the use of one wheel and cog. Unless I am
mistaken, it will strike the bar exactly on the center of
percussion."

John and Manie, who had been married the preceding
winter, and who lived at Lansing, were sitting in the parlor
of the new dwelling, with their chairs touching each other
and Manie's hand resting on his shoulder. The door leading
to the sitting-room was opened by Mrs. Grippin, who
thrust her head inside the parlor.

"Why don't you folks have a light?" she said sharply.
"Sitting there in the dark when there ain't any need of
it, just as though we didn't have money enough to buy
kerosene."

"We have thought nothing about the light," replied
John.

"Just as you like," said Mrs. Grippin, as she closed the
door." Set in the dark like heathens if you want to.
Some folks are so funny about such things."

"How little we are talking," remarked John. "Do
you not feel lonely in so dull society?"

"No, not in the least," answered Manie. "I am never
lonely except when I am with one whom I wish to entertain,
but who has no concern for things in which I am interested.
Left without interruption to my own reflections,
I am quite capable of self-entertainment."

"My tongue has been inactive to-night," said John,
"but my thoughts have been busy. I have been thinking
of last summer when I sat in this room, or its counterpart,
and conducted a suit which, to tell the truth, I had no
reasonable chance to win."

"So you call those visits a courtship, do you?" asked
Manie, with a smile which the darkness concealed, though
it could not hide the raillery expressed in her voice and
words. " Your main care seemed to be to keep me from
knowing your real sentiments, but I readily guessed them
from the first in spite of all your precautions."

"Yes," admitted John, "I was afraid to make known
my longing. While I was in uncertainty, I had hope;
but I did not know how unhappy I might be when doubt
was dispelled. My sex frequently offends by an excess
of presumption."

"The most frequent offenses," replied Manie, "are
caused by a lack of presumption, although the grossest
are caused by its excess."

"That is a strange and questionable theory," replied
John.

"Do you think so?" said Manie. "I know a dozen
young men who are kept by timidity from enjoying the
society of ladies whom they admire. Their addresses,
which would be welcomed, are long deferred. They worship
at a distance; and by and by, when they summon up
their laggard courage and are repulsed, they do not mistrust
that their offers are declined only because they are
proffered too late. The ladies, whose attractions are
appreciated by other admirers, look with scorn on the tardy
advances."

"Now, my little philosopher," said John, "you are, as
ever, argumentative. To-night I am too happy for
controversy. I feel like dreaming rather than arguing.
Come into the orchard with me, Manie."

Silently they passed to the orchard. The sky was
almost cloudless and was brilliantly lighted by its
thousand lamps. They seated themselves at the foot of a tree
and reclined against its trunk. It was with a feeling of
security that Manie let her head drop on his shoulder.
As far as man could love, as far as man could cherish, as far
as man could protect, he would "love, cherish and protect."
She had given him her heart when he was poor in money
and in position. Now the poor had become rich, the
despised had become honored, the weak had become
strong.

They looked long at the fragments of apple-blossoms
which were dropping In the moonlight. One other May
they had been in that orchard, aye, under that very tree,
and had marked the beauty of the sight, a beauty
enhanced by the manifold augmentation of fancy. How
vividly they remembered that Sabbath morning. Nor
could they forget that night when, almost in the same
place, in the net-work of moonbeams which came between
the apple limbs, they had uttered their first words of love.

"At one time," said John, "I was nearly convinced of
the vanity of all aspirations. I thought that happiness,
if it comes, must be a surprise, that whatever felicity is
anticipated is sure to be kept from us. Now I know that
I was wrong. I dreamed of the bliss which I should enjoy
when I had won you, and I have realized it a thousand-fold.
Now, Manie, you must not dispute me this time.
I do not wish you to prove that I have had no enjoyment."

THE END.
